Newsgroups: comp.sources.misc
From: astrolog@u.washington.edu (Astrolog)
Subject: v37i078:  astrolog - Generation of astrology charts v3.05, Part09/12
Message-ID: <1993May19.062006.12373@sparky.imd.sterling.com>
X-Md4-Signature: 2ae470a6756450d96f5c414b84b128b0
Date: Wed, 19 May 1993 06:20:06 GMT
Approved: kent@sparky.imd.sterling.com

Submitted-by: astrolog@u.washington.edu (Astrolog)
Posting-number: Volume 37, Issue 78
Archive-name: astrolog/part09
Environment: UNIX, DOS, VMS
Supersedes: astrolog: Volume 30, Issue 62-69

#! /bin/sh
# This is a shell archive.  Remove anything before this line, then unpack
# it by saving it into a file and typing "sh file".  To overwrite existing
# files, type "sh file -c".  You can also feed this as standard input via
# unshar, or by typing "sh <file", e.g..  If this archive is complete, you
# will see the following message at the end:
#		"End of archive 9 (of 12)."
# Contents:  Helpfile.p2
# Wrapped by pul@hardy on Sun May 16 22:23:18 1993
PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/ucb ; export PATH
if test -f 'Helpfile.p2' -a "${1}" != "-c" ; then 
  echo shar: Will not clobber existing file \"'Helpfile.p2'\"
else
echo shar: Extracting \"'Helpfile.p2'\" \(58887 characters\)
sed "s/^X//" >'Helpfile.p2' <<'END_OF_FILE'
X-A <0-18>: Specify the number of aspects to use in charts.
X
X  If you like many aspects, or only desire the major ones, to be
X  included in the aspect grids, specifying -A <number> will limit or
X  extend the number of aspects (e.g. -A 2 will make charts with only
X  conjunctions and oppositions listed in them, while -A 18 will include
X  all 18 aspects that Astrolog supports.)
X
X-Ao <aspect> <orb>: Specify maximum orb for an aspect.
X
X  Change the default orbs of the various aspects with the -Ao <aspect>
X  <orb> switch. Do you not like the 7 degree orbs for conjunctions that
X  are in there by default? Given an aspect number and an orb value,
X  the orb used for that particular aspect is updated accordingly.
X  Non-integer orb values are allowed of course. Use negative orb values
X  to completely eliminate an aspect from ever appearing. For example:
X  astrolog -Ao 2 4 -Ao 4 -1 narrows the orb for Oppositions, and
X  completely eliminates Trines, leaving all the other aspects at the
X  default values. Note that for very wide orbs more than one aspect may
X  apply for a particular angle, in which case the more fundamental
X  aspect is chosen. Also for wide aspects the fractional value of the
X  orb may be lost in the -g text grid (due to too many characters) and
X  their might be some slight overlap in the X window -g cells.
X
X-Am <planet> <orb>: Specify maximum orb allowed to a planet.
X
X  Ability to explicitly specify maximum orbs that any aspect can make
X  to a particular planet is supported with the -Am switch. This is used
X  for objects like the North Node which require narrower orbs than what
X  the aspects themselves normally allow. The -Am switch takes two
X  parameters: the first to indicate the index of the object, and the
X  second to indicate what the maximum orb allowed to it will be. By
X  default, the only objects with restriction are the Node, Part of
X  Fortune, Vertex, and stars, which allow a 2 degree max orb to them.
X  With this option, one can change these limits or impose restrictions
X  for other planets too. The astrolog.dat file (described later) will
X  read in these default planet orbs for the first 20 objects.
X
X-Ad <planet> <orb>: Specify orb addition given to a planet.
X
X  Ability to widen an aspect orb for any planet is supported with the
X  -Ad switch. This is used for objects like the Sun and Moon which
X  allow wider orbs to them then what the aspects themselves allow. Like
X  the -Am switch, this -Ad switch takes two parameters: the first to
X  indicate the object, and the second to indicate how much wider orbs
X  allowed to it will be. By default, the only objects which have orbs
X  widened for them are the Sun and Moon, each of which adds one degree
X  to the orb of any aspect to it. With this option, one can change
X  these additions or allow other objects to have them, too. The
X  astrolog.dat file will also read in defaults for these orb additions
X  for the first 20 planets.
X
X----
X
XSwitches which affect how a chart is computed:
X
X-c <value>: Select a different default system of houses.
X(0 = Placidus, 1 = Koch, 2 = Equal, 3 = Campanus,
X4 = Meridian, 5 = Regiomontanus, 6 = Porphry, 7 = Morinus,
X8 = Topocentric, 9 = None.)
X
X  Ten different house systems are supported: Invoke as astrolog -c
X  <number> to change the system from the default of Placidus. (System 9
X  refers to no houses at all, or in other words where the Ascendant will
X  always be 0 degrees Aries, the Nadir 0 degrees Cancer, etc, which is
X  useful for the extended chart animations as described later where
X  having houses at all can tend to get in the way, and one can even
X  observe the precession of the equinoxes with this system if used in
X  conjunction with the -s sidereal chart option.)
X
X-s: Compute a sidereal instead of the normal tropical chart.
X
X  With this option, the chart will be just like the normal charts as
X  most commonly used in astrology, except that all the zodiac positions
X  will be shifted (to be about 24 degrees earlier). This is because the
X  option casts sidereal charts which are based on the positions of the
X  fixed stars (i.e. Aries starts at the constellation Aries) rather than
X  the seasons (i.e. Aries starts at the Spring or Vernal Equinox.) Due
X  to the "precession of the equinoxes" the position of the Sun at
X  the Equinoxes has been gradually happening at an earlier point in the
X  sidereal zodiac each year (taking about 2100 years change signs.)
X
X-s0: Display locations as right ascension instead of degrees.
X
X  For astronomers out there, this -s0 option will print all planetary
X  positions in the right ascension hours/minutes format instead of the
X  sign/degrees/minutes astrologers are accustomed to. This will affect
X  how the objects are listed in the -v display, and how the star
X  azimuths are displayed in the -O list. For example, 0 degrees Aries is
X  represented as 0 hr, 0 min; 0 Cancer goes to 6 hr, 0 min, and so on
X  through the 24 hour clock.
X
X-h [<objnum>]: Compute positions centered on specified object.
X
X  Normal astrology charts are based on the positions of the planets
X  relative to the Earth. However, this option allows seeing of the
X  zodiac positions with respect to the Sun's (or any other planet's)
X  point of view. The -h option when invoked by itself will display a
X  heliocentric chart: the Sun in the original listing will be replaced
X  with the Earth's position as seen from the Sun in the heliocentric
X  chart, with the other planets' positions modified accordingly. For
X  bodies other than the Sun, the option takes a parameter to indicate
X  which planet to center the chart on, e.g. do -h 5 to cast a Mars
X  centered chart. (Moon centered charts aren't allowed; in fact, note
X  that the -h option won't ever affect the Moon, which will always be
X  displayed as seen from the Earth, no matter what the center body is
X  set to, since it's not a formal planet.
X
X-p <month> <day> <year>: Cast 2ndary progressed chart for date.
X
X  A secondary progression chart for a particular date can be cast using
X  the '-p <month> <date> <year>' command switch. (Note: I'm not sure if
X  the house cusps are progressed correctly, but they're reasonably
X  close to what is properly expected.)
X
X-p0 <month> <day> <year>: Cast solar arc chart for date.
X
X  Solar arc progressions are supported in addition to secondaries.
X  Invoke the -p <month> <day> <year> switch as -p0 instead, and a chart
X  will be generated with all planets and house cusps progressed forward
X  an amount equal in degrees to the number of years that have passed
X  between the specified date and the chart in question. The -pd option
X  here (see below) specifies the number of days that have to pass per
X  zodiac degree to progress forward; by default this is 365.25. To
X  generate a solar arc chart for the current moment now, invoke the -pn
X  switch as -p0n.
X
X-p[0]n: Cast progressed chart based on current date now.
X
X  The -pn switch is like the -p <month> <date> <year> switch except that
X  (like the -n switch) it assumes the current moment now to cast the
X  progressed chart to. This is just another shorthand convenience to see
X  what ones progressed chart is like presently; just do: astrolog -i
X  file -pn.
X
X-pd <days>: Set no. of days to progress / day (default 365.25).
X
X  User definable progression rates can be specified with this option.
X  When using the -p progression option, Astrolog assumes you want the
X  standard "year for a day" rate of progressions. By passing different
X  values to the -pd switch, one can change the default "365.25 days for
X  a day" to any value they want for some less often used method of
X  progression. For example, one can do "-pd 7 -pn" to do a week for a
X  day, "-pd -365.25 -pn" to get negative year for day progressions, and
X  so on. (Note that "-pd 1 -p..." would be the same as if no
X  progression were done at all.)
X
X-x <1-360>: Cast harmonic chart based on specified factor.
X
X  Harmonic charts (i.e. where all the planet positions are multiplied by a
X  factor and the chart recast) are supported via the '-x' option. (e.g.
X  -x 3 will make all trines conjunct in the chart displayed.)
X
X-1 [<objnum>]: Cast chart with specified object on Ascendant.
X
X  The -1 <obj> option can be used to change the houses to force a
X  particular object to be on the ascendant. This is useful in casting
X  Solar charts or for when the time of birth is not exactly known. For
X  example -1 2 will case a normal chart, but the house cusps will be
X  rotated so that the moon is on the ascendant.
X
X-2 [<objnum>]: Cast chart with specified object on Midheaven.
X
X  Just as the -1 option is used to cast a chart with an object on the
X  Ascendant, the -2 <object> switch will cast a chart with the
X  specified object on the Midheaven. The house cusps will be rotated so
X  that the object in question is conjunct the 10th house cusp. As with
X  the -1 option, if <object> is not specified, the Sun will be assumed
X  by default.
X
X-3: Display objects in their zodiac decan positions.
X
X  Decan displays are supported in Astrolog, and one can display a decan
X  influenced chart with the -3 switch. The decan theory is that each
X  sign in the zodiac can be divided into three parts: The first 10
X  degrees (i.e. the first decan) is mainly influenced by the sign in
X  question, the second 10 degrees (second decan) although still
X  influenced by the sign in question is also somewhat influenced by the
X  next sign of the same element, while the last decan is influenced by
X  the third sign of the same element. The -3 switch applied to a chart
X  will move each object into the sign of its decan. For example, if the
X  Sun is at 29 degrees Aquarius and the Moon at 5 degrees Virgo, in the
X  resulting chart, the Sun will go to Libra (26 degrees) and the Moon
X  will remain in Virgo (although be at 15 degrees now since it was
X  previously in the middle of the first decan of Virgo.)
X
X-f: Display houses as sign positions (flip them).
X
X  The -f option can be used to "flip" the signs and houses, i.e. display
X  the house as a sign position and vice versa. For example having the
X  Sun at 26 degrees Scorpio, 2/3 way though the 10th house, will cause
X  the resulting Sun under the -f option to be at 20 degrees Capricorn,
X  26/30th the way through the 8th house. This can be used to determine
X  how far a planet is through a particular house, as well as for domal
X  chart analysis that Mark Kenski has informed me about. Domal analysis
X  is based on the fact that for synastry comparisons, for example, a
X  planet in Gemini and one in the 3rd house can be considered related in
X  a way similar to a conjunction.
X
X-G: Display houses based on geographic location only.
X
X  This switch generates a special type of locational analysis chart,
X  called a geodetic chart, in which the house cusps are computed from a
X  different source, i.e. as a function of only the longitude and
X  latitude. This basically gives every spot on the planet a different
X  unique set of house cusps, and can be used to analyze the
X  characteristics of different areas, and their influence on you if you
X  insert your own planets in the houses. This type of chart was
X  described in the January 1992 issue of Dell Horoscope magazine, from
X  which I learned how to generate these charts. Basically, the Midheaven
X  is approximately the longitude value converted from degrees into the
X  appropriate zodiac sign; for example 0 degrees E goes to 0 degrees
X  Aries, 30 degrees E goes to 0 degrees Taurus, etc.
X
X-F <objnum> <sign> <deg>: Force object's position to be value.
X
X  The -F option is used to force a particular object's position to
X  always be a particular location in the zodiac. This feature can be
X  used as an easy way to manually include things Astrolog normally
X  doesn't in various charts. For example, this can be used to force the
X  position of some minor thing, like the Vertex, to always be the
X  location of whatever you prefer, like the 0 degrees Aries point, or
X  an important midpoint. Then you can do an aspect grid, transit
X  search, or whatever, and calculate aspects to midpoints or transits
X  over midpoints. The -F switch takes three arguments: first is the
X  index of the object to replace, next is the sign from 1..12 to force
X  it to be, and third is the degree within the sign. For example, if I
X  want to see if anything is making an exact aspect today with my Sun
X  Moon midpoint at 6Sag28, I could do "astrolog -n -d -F 16 9 6.28",
X  which would replace the North Node with my Sun Moon midpoint in the
X  aspect search.
X
X-+ [<days>]: Cast chart for specified no. of days in the future.
X
X  The -+ <#ofdays> option will cast a normal chart, but one for #ofdays
X  in the future (or past if a negative value is given). One use for
X  this is in combination with the -n and -d options. For instance, I
X  often invoke the program as "astrolog -n -d" to see the exact times
X  of today's aspects. However, just before midnight I might want to
X  see what's going to happen in the following day, so I would do
X  "astrolog -n -d -+ 1" to see the exact times for tomorrow's aspects.
X  The #ofdays parameter is optional, and will default to one if left
X  off, so the above command can be done as just "astrolog -n -d -+".
X
X  Note that for such a chart, the chart header will show the correct
X  date of the actual new chart, instead of the original one. For
X  example, today (9-11), if I do "astrolog -n -+ 2" I will get the
X  chart for two days from now, and the chart header will display 9-13.
X  This has some special uses. For example, if you want to know what the
X  date was/will be when you are 10000 days old, do "astrolog -i
X  yourchart -+ 10000" and see what the date in the resulting chart
X  header is.
X
X-- [<days>]: Cast chart for specified no. of days in the past.
X
X  This new "dash minus" option is just like the "dash plus" (-+) option
X  described above, except it subtracts instead of adds the specified
X  number of days from any chart cast. This is only for convenience, in
X  that "-- 1" is the same as "-+ -1".
X
X----
X
XSwitches for relationship and comparison charts:
X
X-r <file1> <file2>: Compute a relationship synastry chart.
X
X  Computing the relationship between two charts is supported. Invoke the
X  program as 'astrolog -r <file_of_person1> <file_of_person2>' and the
X  program will give you the relationship between the two charts. In
X  other words, the program will use the positions of person2's planets
X  and person1's houses. Use this with the -w option to get a wheel chart
X  and you can do synastry. Note that transits can be computed with this
X  by comparing your chart with the positions of the planets at the
X  current moment (as in -n switch). To make this easier, you may specify
X  the filename "now" for any file and the computer will use the current
X  planet positions instead of looking for a like named file. (e.g.
X  'astrolog -r me now' will compute transits for file 'me'.)
X
X-rc <file1> <file2>: Compute a composite chart.
X
X  The '-r' option can be used to generate composite relationship charts.
X  Simply invoke it as '-rc <person1> <person2>' instead of just -r and a
X  composite chart (i.e. composed of the midpoints of the planets, etc.
X  of the two charts in question) will be generated.
X
X-rm <file1> <file2>: Compute a time space midpoint chart.
X
X  Time-space midpoint relationship charts are supported: Doing "-rm
X  chart1 chart2" will calculate the time and location exactly half way
X  between the times and locations as indicated in the two files. Unlike
X  all other types of relationship charts, this one actually exists in
X  space and time, and therefore can be treated like a single chart and
X  can be output to a file with the -o option.
X
X-rd <file1> <file2>: Print number of days between files' dates.
X
X  One useful non-astrological function in the program is the ability to
X  determine how many days have passed between two dates, with the -rd
X  switch. As with the -rb option below, this is considered a
X  relationship "chart" because it requires the input of two different
X  dates, and when -rd is in effect, again the standard -v planet
X  position listing will be replaced by a line telling how many days are
X  in the interval. For example, "-rd person1 person2", will display how
X  many days person1 is older than person2 (or the other day around).
X  Want to find out how many days old you will be on Jan. 1, 2000? Do
X  "-rd yourchart tty", and type in the first date of the next
X  millennium, and see what you get!
X
X-rb <file1> <file2>: Display biorhythm for file1 at time file2.
X
X  Biorhythm charts are supported by Astrolog with the -rb switch.
X  Although not directly related to Astrology, the concepts are similar,
X  and adding this didn't require much extra code, and since some are
X  interested in this, I felt I'd add it in. The biorhythm theory says
X  that we have three main types of energy: Physical, Emotional, and
X  Intellectual. These three run in continuous wave cycles from high to
X  low, each of which repeats about every 30 days or so. Therefore, a
X  biorhythm chart for a particular day should describe how much energy
X  one has or how they are feeling in this area. Now, Astrolog considers
X  biorhythm charts as a type of relationship chart, because in order to
X  generate one, two dates or charts are needed: the birth date of the
X  person, and the date to cast their chart for. Technically the program
X  will replace the standard -v listing of planet positions with the
X  biorhythm chart when -rb is in effect. As an example, "-rb file1
X  file2" will cast the chart for the birthday signified by chart1 or
X  chart2 (whichever is older) for the date in the other file. Remember
X  that one can substitute the pseudo filename 'tty' to mean get the
X  chart info from the terminal instead.
X
X  The actual biorhythm chart itself will display, for the day in
X  question, what the percentages of the physical, emotional, and
X  intellectual cycles are, as numbers from -100% (low ebb) to +100%
X  (happy and full of energy). In addition, the biorhythm percentages for
X  the seven days before (T-7 days) and the seven days after (T+7 days)
X  the date in question will be listed, too, so one can see if the
X  cycles are rising or falling. Finally, as a cute way to help in
X  interpretation, the program prints the appropriate smiley, medium, or
X  sad face after each percentage. (BTW, it takes over 58 years for all
X  three cycles together to synchronize and repeat themselves.)
X
X-r0 <file1> <file2>: Keep the charts separate in comparison.
X
X  There is a distinction between any of the above types of particular
X  relationship charts and the actual comparison between two separate
X  charts. The -r0 option is used to generate actual comparison charts.
X  For example, combining -r0 with the -g switch will cause a full grid
X  chart of the aspects between all the planets of the two charts (with
X  person1's planets on the vertical axis and person2's on the
X  horizontal) to be displayed. (Unfortunately, if all 20 of the
X  default objects are left unrestricted here, the grid will exceed 80
X  columns, unless the 80 column clip feature (described later) is
X  turned on.) The -r0 option can also be used with the -X switch to
X  generate true relationship wheel charts, (described later). The -r0
X  option will act like the -r synastry option in certain displays that
X  can't compare two charts; for example, '-r0 -v' will act the same as
X  just '-r -v'. (Note: the "-t file" current transit option is
X  basically a shorthand way of doing "-r0 file now".)
X
X  Comparison relationship charts may also be generated for the -m
X  midpoint and -m0 aspect list options. Combining -m with -r0 will
X  yield an ordered list of all midpoints between all combinations of
X  one planet from chart1 and another planet from chart2. Combining -m0
X  with -r0 will yield a list of all aspects between planets in the two
X  charts, in order based on what Astrolog think their influences are.
X  So, if you really want to know if your Sun widely trining your SO's
X  Moon, will override the effect of your Saturn closely squaring their
X  Mars, do "astrolog -r0 yourchart sochart -m0" and see the influence
X  given to each aspect.
X
X-t <file>: Display current house transits for particular chart.
X
X  The command switch '-t <file>' can be used as a shortcut way to
X  compute the current transits for the chart in <file>. (Saves you from
X  having to mention the 'now' in the '-r0' option.)
X
X-t[b|d] <file>: Print biorhythm/datediff for current time now.
X
X  The -t option has been extended based on the -rd and -rb features.
X  Remember, the -t option is a shorthand for specifying a relationship
X  comparison chart where one of the charts is that for the current
X  moment now (assuming you have TIME compiled in.) The -tb <file>
X  switch will display the person indicated in file's biorhythm for
X  today. The -td <file> switch will display how many days old the
X  person in the file is today.
X
X----
X
XSwitches to access graphics options:
X
X-k: Display text charts using Ansi characters and color.
X
X  With this option, the text charts may be displayed in color, as well
X  as with real graphics characters instead of with stuff like dashes
X  and pluses. This makes the text charts look almost as neat as their
X  color X11 graphic counterparts. All that's needed is a terminal that
X  accepts Ansi escape sequences. You will get garbage if you include
X  -k on a non-Ansi terminal. Most PC's are in Ansi mode, so if you have
X  a PC this should work. Include the -k switch on the command line, and
X  the program will display all charts as before, but change the color
X  appropriately for every part of any chart printed! Just try a -w
X  chart, a -g grid, or a -T list and see the difference of how much
X  easier it is to find a planet or aspect among a large chart.
X
X  Color isn't used randomly but is based on logic. Most colors are very
X  similar to the ones chosen in the color X charts. In general,
X  everything is based on the following rules for elements: Fire is Red,
X  Earth is Yellow, Air is Green, and Water is Blue. Zodiac signs and
X  positions are printed in the color of their element. Houses are
X  printed in the color of their corresponding sign. Planets are printed
X  in the color of the sign they rule. As for the other objects, we have
X  the following colors: Asteroids are in bright purple (magenta),
X  Uranians are in dim purple, and non-physical points like the Node,
X  Fortune, and Vertex are in a bluish gray (dark cyan). Stars are
X  either orange if they are bright (magnitude < 1.0) or a dark red if
X  dimmer. For aspects we have the following: Conjunctions are Yellow,
X  Oppositions are Blue, Squares are Red, Trines are Green, Sextiles are
X  Light Blue (Cyan). For the minor aspects we have magenta for
X  inconjunct/semisextile, orange for semisquare/sesquiquadrature, dark
X  cyan for all the quintiles, dark purple for all the septiles, and
X  dark red for all the noviles.
X
X-X: Create a graphics chart instead of displaying it as text.
X
X  This is the general switch, which means display a chart in an X window
X  instead of on the screen in some form. For example, the command
X  'astrolog -i mychart -X' will open a new window and display the chart
X  in question in it. (Of course, all the other switches, e.g. -R, -c,
X  -1, etc, can be used to change what info is actually displayed.) If
X  you use the -L astro-graph switch in addition to this, the appropriate
X  Astro*Carto*Graphy map will come up in a window instead of the earlier
X  boring list of longitudes. (e.g. astrolog -i me -X -L) The -Z and -g
X  switches will produce their own chart types as well, although, of
X  course, only one type of chart can be in a window at any given time.
X
X-Xb: Create bitmap file instead of putting graphics on screen.
X
X  This switch will cause a bitmap file to be produced and written to a
X  file instead of putting the graphics in an actual window. This is
X  useful if you want to convert the graphics to different formats, e.g.
X  so they can be displayed on PC's, etc. Note that -Xb (or any other
X  -X<letter> switch) automatically assumes the -X switch above, so
X  'astrolog -i file -Xb' is sufficient (and you don't also have to
X  include the -X).
X
X-Xb[n,c,v,a,b]: Set bitmap file output mode to X11 normal,
Xcompacted, very compact, Ascii (bmtoa), or Windows bmp.
X
X  The bitmap file can be written in five different formats; by default
X  whatever format specified at compile time is used. One can change
X  this mode by putting an extra character on the command line after the
X  -Xb switch. Specifically, to override the compile time mode, use -Xbn
X  for a standard X11 bitmap, -Xbc for an X11 bitmap with some white
X  space removed, -Xbv for a very compact X11 bitmap (which may not be
X  able to be processed correctly by all X programs), -Xba for a one
X  character per pixel Ascii dump identical to the result generated from
X  the X11 bmtoa program, and finally -Xbb for the Windows .bmp bitmap
X  described below.
X
X  One of the available bitmap formats are the .bmp extension bitmap
X  files commonly used on PC's running under Microsoft Windows. If you
X  have a PC running Windows, you can set your root background to be one
X  of these monochrome Astrolog bitmaps by: use the -Xb option to create
X  a bitmap file, then rename it to have the extension .bmp and put it
X  in your Windows subdirectory, then go into Program Manager -> Control
X  Panels -> Desktop and select this file to be your "wallpaper". These
X  bitmap files may be generated in either color or black and white.
X  By default, all graphic charts will be in color, unless specified
X  otherwise. Color is most useful for these PC bitmaps (-Xbb), although
X  a color bitmap will take up more disk space. X11 bitmap files will
X  always be output in monochrome format, since color .xbm files don't
X  exist. A color Ascii file (-Xba) will have the color value of each
X  pixel converted to a hexadecimal number, instead of being in the
X  format generated by the Unix bmtoa utility in the case of monochrome
X  charts.
X
X-Xo <file>: Write output bitmap to specified file.
X
X  This option is used in conjunction with the -Xb option, to specify the
X  name of the file to write the bitmap to. If not included along with the
X  -Xb option, the program will prompt you for the filename when writing
X  the bitmap to disk.
X
X-XB: Display X chart on root instead of in a separate window.
X
X  This switch will cause the chart graphics to be displayed directly on
X  the root window. This action occurs very quickly since the program
X  does not have to write a separate bitmap file and call xsetroot -bitmap
X  on it (although one could easily do this if they want to). For example,
X  one could put the line 'astrolog -n -XB' in their .xsession file
X  and whenever they log in, their background will be set to a chart of
X  the current state of the planets!
X
X-Xm: Create monochrome graphic instead of one in color.
X
X  For systems without color monitors, the -Xm switch will create all
X  charts in monochrome B/W mode. One can still generate color bitmap
X  files on a monochrome system, just can't properly display them of
X  course.
X
X-Xr: Create chart graphic in reversed colors (white background).
X
X  Normally the charts comes up white on a black background. To get the
X  chart or bitmap displayed in reverse video (black on white), use this
X  -Xr switch.
X
X-Xw <hor> [<ver>]: Change the size of the chart graphic.
X
X  The default graphic size is 600x600 (400x400 for PC's). This can be
X  changed with the -Xw switch. -Xw with one argument n will make an n
X  by n chart; -Xw with two arguments x and y will make an x by y image
X  with the chart centered in the middle. Note that this switch will not
X  affect astro-graph or aspect grid windows; to change the size of
X  these use -Xs below.
X
X-Xs <100,200,300>: Change the size of map or characters by n%.
X
X  Note that the size of the planet and sign glyphs don't change when you
X  change the size of the chart. This can cause problems for very small
X  charts where the glyphs overlap the rest of the chart and for very
X  large charts where there is lots of excess space. The -Xs switch can
X  be used to change the size of all glyphs. The valid values that can be
X  passed to it are 100, 200, and 300, where 200 is the default. Note
X  that this switch is used to change the size of the astro-graph (and
X  aspect grid) graphic charts (because the world map is considered to be
X  one giant glyph by the program.)
X
X-Xi: Create chart graphic in slightly modified form.
X
X  Certain people have asked that some of the graphics charts be modified
X  in various minor ways, i.e. in either adding or removing certain
X  information. Rather than add a new hard to remember minor option for
X  each change, I have added one major new switch which covers all the
X  charts. The new -Xi switch will invoke this "induce/inhibit
X  information" option, and pressing the 'i' key in a window will
X  accomplish the same thing by toggling the mode's status. By default,
X  all the charts are as before, but when this bonus option is set, it
X  affects each graphic chart in a different way, as follows:
X
X o For the standard -v and relationship -r0 -v wheel charts, it will
X   inhibit the display of the aspect grid in the center - useful for
X   speed or when doing large time lapse animations when it would get in
X   the way.
X
X o For the -g aspect grid, it will flip the aspects and midpoints across
X   the center diagonal, i.e. the midpoints will be below it and the
X   aspects above it, instead of the other way around. For the -r0 -g
X   relationship aspect grid, the entire grid will be replaced with one
X   showing all midpoints between all the objects in the two charts.
X   Note: The -g0 switch when combined with -r0 will also generate a
X   relationship midpoint (as opposed to aspect with just -g) grid.
X   However, this will revert back to the aspect grid if both -Xi and -g0
X   are in effect with -r0.) 
X
X o For the -Z horizon chart and -S space chart, it will, for the major
X   planets, increase the size of the "points" showing where each object
X   actually is, making a brighter "spot", for easier viewing; combine
X   this in the horizon chart with the 'l' key label inhibitor and get a
X   very realistic view of the night sky, with planets brighter and all.
X
X o For the -L astro-graph chart, this will eliminate the display of the
X   Ascendant, Descendant, and Nadir lines, leaving just the vertical
X   Midheaven lines and zenith points, for a remarkable increase in speed
X   and much less clutter when including many objects.
X
X o For the -XW world map display, this will show the Earth's ley line
X   locations by drawing them on top of the map. Familiar with ley lines?
X   They are lines of energy crossing the Earth. I was experimenting
X   earlier with the master ley line grids on the Earth (in the pattern of
X   an overlapped 20 sided Icosahedron and 12 sided Dodecahedron) and I
X   figured Astrolog with its world map would be an interesting program to
X   explore this with. Actually this is mainly a hack, and belongs more to
X   the field of dowsing than to astrology, but I figured I would leave it
X   in there for amusement and inspiration.
X
X   Hackers note: there is an interesting "bug/feature" that can arise
X   with the -XW as well as the -XG (and -XP, described below) switches:
X   These displays can be brought up in a window without having to
X   specify an actual chart. Now suppose one presses 'V', 'L', etc. to
X   bring up a chart - what will be displayed? The answer will be
X   whatever default values were already there, and if you're curious,
X   it's set to be the chart for the release of this version of the
X   program itself: 6:43am PST (8 hr before GMT) on March 20, 1993 here
X   in Seattle, WA 122W20, 47N36 (exact moment of the Vernal Equinox when
X   the Sun entered Aries.)
X
X o For the -XP polar globe view, this will show the southern hemisphere
X   instead of the northern.
X
X o For the -XG globe display, it will display the zenith locations of all
X   planets (and stars if -U in effect) on the globe, i.e. where on the
X   Earth each object could be viewed by looking straight up. This on the
X   globe display is almost identical to the astro-graph chart without its
X   various lines, except of course that the projection of the world map
X   is different. It's also similar to the -Z horizon display, except that
X   it's free from the distortion of projecting the celestial sphere upon
X   a plane, so it has use to star gazers. However, animation mode here
X   will still only affect what part of the Earth is viewable, and won't
X   update the chart from which the zenith locations were obtained.
X
X-XT: Inhibit display of chart info at bottom of graphic.
X
X  Normally, at the bottom of any chart graphic is printed some header
X  information listing the date, time, and location of the chart in
X  question. One can inhibit this display by specifying the -XT switch.
X
X-X1 <object>: Rotate wheel charts so object is at left edge.
X
X  Yet another graphics feature, this allows one to effectively rotate
X  one of the graphic wheel charts so that a particular object is hinged
X  to the left hand (east) edge of the chart. Given the -X1 switch with
X  the index value of an object, the wheel is drawn but always rotated
X  so that the object in question is at the left side of the chart. By
X  default we have the ascendant at the left edge, of course. This is
X  useful for tracking important planets so one knows where they are,
X  but yet doesn't distort the house cusps as the -1 switch does.
X
X-X2 <object>: Rotate wheel charts so object is at top edge.
X
X  This is identical to the -X1 switch above except here we rotate the
X  entire graphic wheel so the object in question is always at the top
X  of the chart. Note that during a day, the degree difference between
X  the Ascendant and Midheaven varies in most house systems, so that
X  with the Ascendant hinged at the left edge, the Midheaven will wobble
X  back and forth near the top of the wheel. If you prefer, "-X2 18"
X  will fix the Midheaven at the top of the screen, and the chart will
X  be like before except the Ascendant will be the one to wobble near
X  the left edge of the chart.
X
X-Xd <name>, -di[..] <name>: Open X window on specified display.
X
X  For X windows only, the -Xd <display> switch can be used to change
X  the display to bring the window up on. Normally, the X window will
X  always come up on the current display, but we can do things like
X  "astrolog -Xd machine:0.0" and have the window appear there. In
X  addition, the program will accept this string through the standard
X  "-display" (which can be abbreviated as "-disp" or anything starting
X  with "-di") switch common to most X11 applications.
X
X-XW: Simply create an image of the world map.
X
X  Believe it or not, I painstakingly entered the data for the world map
X  used by the program by hand using an Atlas during a long week. If you
X  just want to see the map of the world by itself without any
X  astro-graph lines on it, use the -XW switch.
X
X-XW0: Like -XW but do a non-rectangular Mollewide projection.
X
X  The -XW0 switch is just like the normal -XW switch in that it just
X  displays the world map and nothing else, except that this -XW0 map
X  generated will be in what's called the Mollewide projection, a good
X  looking form often used for maps of the world, as opposed to the
X  standard rectangular map projection used in -XW which distorts the
X  polar regions of the globe across the top and bottom of the screen.
X  (The Mollewide projection pinches the polar regions together,
X  generating a elliptical map, which is similar to the -XG globe
X  displays, but which shows the whole world instead of just half.)
X
X-XP: Create just the world map, but from a polar projection.
X
X  The -XP option will generate a polar view of the Earth as a globe.
X  This is like the -XG globe option except that the view is always from
X  the top (or bottom). By default, the view is looking down on the north
X  pole with 0 deg W/E toward the bottom of the screen. (Animation mode
X  will cause the view to spin about the center of the screen.) To see a
X  view of the south pole hemisphere, go into the bonus information mode
X  described above ('i' key). Again, like with all the other X window
X  display modes, one can enter this display with a keystroke: press 'P'
X  in any Astrolog window and it will revert to this display.
X
X-XG [<degrees>]: Display the image of the world as a globe.
X
X  Once we have the data for the map of the world, there are
X  several neat things we can do with it; for instance, with a little
X  trigonometry and clipping, we can bring up a view of a globe, which
X  is what the -XG switch does. An optional argument will specify a
X  rotation value in degrees to display different parts of the globe.
X  (The globe seems to look best for a -Xw window size of around 350.)
X
X  Note that the -XW and -XW0 maps can be animated like as this -XG
X  globe display can. Animation of these maps are done by shifting the
X  whole map to one side or the other. In fact, such a feature can be
X  used indirectly to shift one of the X window astro-graph charts
X  (which are drawn on the world map) from the normal case of having the
X  date line on the edges of the screen: Go into the world map or globe
X  display, animate it a bit, and then change graphic modes to display
X  the astro-graph chart, and it will be shifted by the corresponding
X  amount. (Note that animating the astro-graph screen itself will
X  change the chart info, not how the screen itself is done.) Because
X  the -XW world map, and -XP polar globe display, can be animated just
X  as the -XG general globe display can, the -XW and -XP switches accept
X  optional parameters on the command line that will specify what degree
X  (from 0 to 359) to start the map at, just like the -XG switch does.
X  In addition, the -XG option itself accepts a second optional
X  parameter, which is the starting angle for the globe's tilt, from -90
X  to +90 degrees.
X
X-Xn: Start up chart or globe display in animation mode.
X
X  The -Xn [<value>] option can be used to start up an X window in
X  animation mode. It a window, one would have to explicitly press 'N' or
X  a shift+number key to start the window animation. Without a parameter
X  after -Xn, the option will start it up in continuous update to "now"
X  mode (which is like pressing 'N' in that any chart will be erased with
X  the current chart now.) The switch can accept parameters from 1..9,
X  corresponding to the animation rates obtained by pressing shift 1..9
X  in the window, i.e. update whatever chart is passed to it seconds,
X  minutes, hours, days, months, years, etc. later each time.
X
X----
X
XAstrolog window keypress options (version 3.00):
X
XPress 'H' or '?' to display this list of key options.
X
X  The most important key, of course. Pressing this will display a help
X  list of all the key presses available in the text screen from which
X  the window was invoked from.
X
XPress 'p' to toggle pause status on or off.
X
X  Press this to pause all updates to the window. This is mainly used to
X  freeze any animation (see below) but also has an effect even on
X  'still' windows. Key presses will still be accepted in pause mode but
X  their effects won't be apparent until one presses 'p' again to
X  continue. This can be used to temporarily freeze a chart in animation
X  so that it can be looked at without interruption.
X
XPress 'x' to toggle fg/bg colors on screen.
X
X  Pressing this will invert the colors on the screen, or in other
X  words will do the same thing as the -Xr switch on the command line.
X
XPress 'm' to toggle color/monochrome display on screen.
X
X  For color displays, pressing this key will toggle in and out of
X  monochrome mode.
X
XPress 'T' to toggle header info on current chart on screen.
X
X  Pressing the 'T' key will toggle whether or not the chart parameters
X  are printed at the bottom of the window. This corresponds to the -XT
X  switch mentioned earlier.
X
XPress 'i' to toggle status of the minor chart modification.
X
X  Pressing this key will toggle whether or not an alternate form of the
X  present chart should be displayed. See the -Xi switch described
X  earlier for more information on these alternate chart formats.
X
XPress 'l' to toggle labeling of object points in chart.
X
X  Press the 'l' key in a window to inhibit the labeling of all planets
X  in the various charts. Instead of drawing the little point and then
X  the glyph near it, just the point is displayed. This mode is mainly
X  useful for the -Z horizon and -S space charts (and has little use for
X  anything else) when in cramped quarters or to get a more realistic
X  view of how the sky actually looks.
X
XPress 'v' to display current chart positions on text screen.
X
X  Press this key to dump back to the text screen the list of where all
X  the planets currently being displayed in the window are. This display
X  is the same as produced with the -v switch, and is useful if one wants
X  text to show where everything in the chart is.
X
XPress 'R' to toggle restriction status of minor objects.
X
X  Press the 'R' (restrict) key in an Astrolog X window and the screen
X  will be redrawn with the restriction status of these asteroids and
X  other minors toggled.
X
XPress 'C' to toggle restriction status of minor house cusps.
XPress 'u' to toggle restriction status of uranian planets.
XPress 'U' to toggle restriction status of fixed stars.
X
X  Pressing the 'C', 'u', and 'U' keys in the window will toggle the
X  restriction status of the four minor house cusps, the uranian planets,
X  and the fixed stars, respectively. These keys compliment the 'R' key
X  option already in place, and are the counterparts to the -C, -u, -U,
X  and -RC, -Ru, -RU options.
X
XPress 's', 'h', 'f', 'F' to toggle status of sidereal zodiac,
Xheliocentric charts, domal charts, and decan charts.
X
X  Press the 's' key in the window to toggle whether or not the sidereal
X  vs. tropical zodiac is used. Press the 'h' key to toggle to a
X  heliocentric based chart or back again to a geocentric one. Press the
X  'f' key to toggle the status of whether or not the chart should be
X  modified to correspond to the appropriate domal chart (where the house
X  positions are represented as zodiac positions and vice versa). Press
X  the 'F' key to toggle the status of whether or not the chart should be
X  modified to correspond to a decan chart (where each sign is divided in
X  thirds representing the two other signs in its element). These keys of
X  course correspond the -s, -h, -f, and -3 options, respectively.
X
XPress 'O' and 'o' to recall/store a previous chart from memory.
X
X  Have you ever animated your natal or some other chart to some far
X  distant future or past time, only then to wish you could somehow
X  easily get back in time to the original chart? You can, by pressing
X  the 'O' key in a window, which will recall to the screen previously
X  "saved" chart parameters (which are by default set to whatever you
X  started the window with.) Press the 'o' key to change this default
X  stored chart to be the chart that is presently in the window.
X
XPress 'B' to dump current window contents to root background.
X
X  Press the 'B' key in an X window to dump whatever is currently being
X  displayed to the background root window. This is basically the
X  corresponding keypress to the -XB option.
X
XPress 'Q' to resize chart display to a square.
X
X  One can manually resize the Astrolog windows using a window manager
X  (except when a world map or aspect grid is displayed, in which case
X  any resizing will have no effect). Pressing the 'Q' key will
X  automatically resize any (non-world map) window to be a square. This
X  is useful, after resizing charts to approximately the size you want,
X  to make them precise squares.
X
XPress '<' and '>' to decrease/increase the scale size of the
Xglyphs and the size of world map.
X
X  This two keys will respectively decrease and increase the size of the
X  sign and planet glyphs (as well as resize the astro-graph and aspect
X  grid charts) through the three scale factors available. After resizing
X  the window, you will probably want to use these keys if the glyphs are
X  then too big or small for the new chart.
X
XPress '[' and ']' to decrease/increase tilt in globe display.
X
X  '[', ']' keys: Not only can the globe display be rotated, but the
X  poles can be now tilted down at various angles! (This basically makes
X  the -XP polar globe view option obsolete; it's still in there only for
X  backwards compatibility.) Press the '[' and ']' keys when the globe is
X  being displayed to respectively "pull down" and "push back up" the
X  angle of the polar axis from which the globe is viewed.  Combining
X  this with the globe rotation allows one to move any point of the globe
X  to the center of the screen.
X
XPress 'N' to toggle animation status on or off. Charts will
Xbe updated to current status and globe will rotate.
X
X  Animation! This key will toggle in and out of a mode where the chart
X  is continually updated in the window. Entering the animation mode
X  will cause the chart being currently displayed to be replaced by the
X  chart for the exact moment at the time you are running the program.
X  Every second or two, the chart will be updated to reflect the new
X  current state of the planets and houses. For large window sizes, one
X  can actually see very minor changes in the chart every few seconds.
X  With the text 'T' mode in effect, the chart is basically an advanced
X  version of xclock, and makes a good window to be left running on
X  your display. If you are in the -XG globe display mode, pressing
X  the 'N' key will cause the globe to rotate for an impressive display!
X
XPress '!'-'(' to begin updating current chart by adding times.
X!: seconds, @: minutes, #: hours, $: days, : months,
X^: years, &: years*10, *: years*100, (: years*1000.
X
X  These nine keys (i.e. shift plus the number keys from 1..9) enter
X  into a different form of chart animation. Pressing them will cause the
X  current chart being displayed (i.e. it will not revert to the current
X  planet positions) to continually have a delta time added to it and be
X  recast and shown. Pressing '!' will have one second added to the chart
X  for every update (slow action unless you have a very fast system - the
X  animation will be even slower than for the 'N' key). Pressing '@' will
X  have one minute added to the chart each time, which makes for a nice
X  display (note that you will definitely want to be in the text 'T' mode
X  for these animations so you can see what times in the future these
X  charts are being cast for. Pressing '#" will have one hour added each
X  time (note that now the house cusps are starting to move quickly, so
X  you may want to switch to a different system of houses (such as the
X  Equal to keep the Midheaven from flopping back and forth) and/or use
X  -1 to put an object like the sun on the Ascendant.) Pressing '$' will
X  have one day added each time (now you will probably want to start
X  using -R to remove fast moving objects like the moon), and pressing
X  '%' will have one month added for each update of the window. The
X  final keys, shift 6..9 cause years, decades, centuries, and millennia
X  to be added each time, and tend to only be used to look for long range
X  actions (when will Neptune next enter Pisces, etc.) To exit these
X  animation modes, press the 'N' key.
X
XPress 'r' to reverse direction of time-lapse or animation.
X
X  Press this to reverse the direction of any animation taking
X  place. For the '!'..'(' animation keys above, this will cause
X  negative times to be added to the chart, e.g. pressing '#'
X  then 'r' on a chart cast for noon will cause the next chart to
X  be displayed for 11am, then 10am, etc. For the Globe animation,
X  this will cause the rotation to reverse direction.
X
XPress '1'-'9' to set rate of animation to 'n' degrees, etc.
X
X  The nine number keys are used to set the relative "rate" of
X  animation to "n" whatevers. For example, normally the "@" key means
X  add one minute to the chart for each update, but press "5" and now
X  we are adding 5 minutes each time. For the Globe animation,
X  by default the Earth rotates one degree each time; however, the
X  number keys can speed this up to nine degrees for each update.
X
XPress '1'-'9' to determine section of chart to show if clipped.
X
X  For PC systems only, see the section on PC graphics for this
X  additional feature accessed through the number keys.
X
XPress 'V','L','A','Z','S','W','G','P' to switch to normal (-v),
Xastro-graph (-L), grid (-g), local (-Z), space (-S),
Xworld (-XW), globe (-XG), and polar (-XP) modes.
X
X  There are basically eight main modes in which a window can be in:
X  There are the five main charts (wheel, astro-graph, aspect grids,
X  local sky, and space view) as well as the three world displays (the
X  simple map by itself, the globe view, and the polar projection). These
X  eight keys can be used to switch between these eight modes in the
X  middle of program execution. For example, you can bring up your own
X  chart in a window, then press 'L' to see the astro-graph chart for the
X  same birth data. Then you can press 'W' to just see the world map by
X  itself, and 'G' to see the globe view, after which you can press 'V'
X  to return to your original wheel chart.
X
XPress '0' to toggle between -Z & -Z0, and -XW & -XW0 modes.
X
X  When graphics are up on the screen, pressing this key acts similar to
X  the mode changing keys above that switch between the different
X  graphic chart types. When pressed, the state of the program being
X  invoked with -Z vs. -Z0, as well as the state of -XW vs. -XW0, will
X  be reversed. In other words, if I am viewing the -Z -X horizon chart,
X  and I want to see the -Z0 -X sky graphic, then I press '0' to go to
X  it. Similarly, this key will flip me back and forth between the -XW
X  simple rectangular world map display and the -XW0 Mollewide
X  projection graphic. A bit of a hack, but very useful, and the only
X  way to change these suboptions while the program is running.
X
XPress 'tab' to toggle between graphics resolutions.
X
X  This feature is only available on PC systems. See PC graphics section
X  for its description.
X
XPress 'q' to terminate the window and program.
X
X  Pressing this key will exit graphics mode or terminate the window
X  (and leave the Astrolog program itself.)
X
X----
X
XLeft   mouse button: Draw lines on chart in window.
XMiddle mouse button: Print coordinates of pointer on world map.
XRight  mouse button: Terminate the window and program.
X
X  Mouse buttons: Pressing the mouse buttons in the X windows will do
X  various functions. The left mouse button acts as a pen that allows one
X  to actually draw on the chart: press it and drag the pointer to draw a
X  line on the window - good for aiding in analysis or in presentations.
X  (Any scribbles one makes will disappear the next time the chart window
X  is updated, therefore drawing will have little effect when in
X  animation mode.) The middle mouse button will only work when the world
X  map is shown, i.e. in the -L astro-graph or -XW world map displays:
X  press it and get the approximate longitude and latitude of the place
X  on the map where the pointer is. For the three scale sizes of 100,
X  200, and 300 percent, the accuracy is to the nearest degree, 30', and
X  20', respectively. So, if you want to cast a chart for southern
X  Madagascar, Africa, but don't know the coordinates, click the middle
X  button on the map for a good approximation! Finally, the right button
X  acts just like the 'q' key, and will terminate the window.
X
X
X*******************************
XDATA ENTRY AND THE MAIN DISPLAY
X*******************************
X
X     The main part of the program is executed simply by entering
X"astrolog" (assuming that's the name of the executable), and the
Xprogram will ask you for all the birth info and will give the
Xplanet/house positions. (e.g. for here in Seattle right now for the
Xseven prompts I would enter [for June 11th, 1992 AD at 10:22pm, with
Xdaylight time in effect - if daylight time were *not* in effect, I
Xwould have entered 22.22 for the fourth value instead]: 6; 11; 1992;
X21.22; 122.20; 47.36) The program then calculates and displays the
Xpositions of all planets, Chiron, the four main asteroids, as well as
Xstuff like the Part of Fortune and the Vertex. (The Uranian bodies
Xand fixed stars can also be listed if one includes the appropriate
Xcommand switches described earlier.)
X
X     This user interface where one manually inputs the chart
Xinformation is "smart" in a few ways. First, the true names of months
Xor their abbreviations may be entered (case doesn't matter) instead
Xof the corresponding number if you prefer. At most, the first three
Xletters of the month are needed; some months (like February which is
Xthe only month starting with "F") may be abbreviated all the way up
Xto their first letter. The second enhancement is that the time value
Xmay be entered with a "pm" or "am" (or just "p" and "a") suffix in
Xaddition to the standard 24 hour clock. For example, instead of
Xentering "18.30" for "6:30pm", you can enter "6.30pm" or even "6.3p"
Xand the program will process it the same. Similarly, "12.30am" can be
Xused instead of "0.30", and so on. The final enhancement is that
Xcolons may be used instead of decimal points for the time and
Xlocation values. For example "6.30" may be entered as "6:30" instead,
Xand longitude values like "122.20" may be entered "122:20", which is
Xmore intuitive than those decimal points.
X
X--
X
X     When the standard list of planetary positions is displayed, some
Xadditional information in addition to these locations are shown: (1)
XWhether or not each planet is in its ruling sign, or fall, as well as
Xdisplaying the same information for ruling or debilitating houses.
X(2) The sum of the signs in each element and mode and their totals is
Xdisplayed in a grid form. Also, planets in their exalted and
Xdebilitated signs are noted. In addition to the (R) indicating a
Xplanet in it's ruling sign, and an (F) for a planet in it's fall, we
Xhave (e) if a planet is in its exalting sign, and a (d) for a planet
Xin its debilitating sign (which is always opposite the exaltation, as
Xhow the fall is opposite the ruler).
X
X     Also in this main display, the total number of planets in each
Xof the hemispheres of the wheel, as well the number of objects in
Xpositive/masculine and negative/feminine quality signs, are counted.
XTo the right of the element table, we have a column of seven numbers
Xlabeled as follows: "+" is the number of "positive" objects (i.e. in
XFire or Air signs); "-" is the number of "negative" objects (i.e. in
XWater or Earth signs); "M" is the number of objects above the horizon
X(i.e. in the hemisphere of the Midheaven); "N" is the number of
Xobjects below the horizon (in the hemisphere of the Nadir); "A" is
Xthe number of objects in the Eastern half of the sky (in the
Xhemisphere of the Ascendant); and "D" is the number of objects in the
XWestern half of the sky (in the hemisphere of the Descendant).
XFinally we have a field indicating the division of objects into the
Xfirst six and second six signs of the zodiac. The number of objects
Xin the first six signs of the zodiac will be printed, labeled by the
Xcharacter "<". (The number in the second half isn't printed; just
Xsubtract from the total if you want to know.) According to a book on
Xthe Kaballah, the emphasis of the first six signs on the zodiac is on
X"what's to learn", and the emphasis on the second six signs is on
X"what's to share". Use or interpret this as you wish.
X
X     I have taken the liberty to define ruling and exalting signs for
Xthe asteroids (and the rest of the first twenty objects that don't
Xalready have them.) This won't affect much other than whether a 'R',
X'F', 'e', or 'd' is displayed in the -v charts, but it will slightly
Xaffect the powers given to these objects in the -j influence chart
Xsince they now can be in their ruling sign. The -O object list will
Xdisplay the list of ruling and exalting signs (and the fall and
Xdebilitating signs which are just opposite the above) for all these
Xobjects in addition to the planets; however, I have listed them below:
X
X     Chiron, the compassionate, experienced healer, is most similar
Xin function to Pisces, hence Chiron rules here. Chiron expresses well
Xin caring, feeling, Cancer, hence Chiron exalts here. Ceres, goddess
Xof agriculture and representing the mothering, reproductive instinct,
Xis similar in function to Taurus, hence Ceres rules here. Ceres
Xexpresses well in the nurturing, caring, sign of Cancer, hence Ceres
Xexalts here. Pallas Athena, mentally acute and unemotional, is most
Xsimilar in function to Virgo, hence Pallas rules here. Pallas
Xexpresses well in practical, disciplined, introverted Capricorn,
Xhence Pallas exalts here. Juno, ability to sacrifice self-interests
Xto maintain a relationship, is most similar in function to
Xrelationship oriented Libra, hence Juno rules here. Juno expresses
Xwell in sociable, crowd pleasing Leo, hence Juno exalts here. Vesta,
Xwith its orientation to directing hidden creative or sexual energy
Xwithout fear, is most similar in function to Scorpio, hence Vesta
Xrules here. Vesta expresses well in individualistic, quirky Aquarius,
Xhence Vesta exalts here. The North Node, with its emphasis on being
Xable to break from the past routine and pursue the unfamiliar and
Xpersonal growth, is most similar in function to society questioning
Xindependent Aquarius, hence it rules here. The Node expresses well in
Xgrowth and sacrifice oriented Virgo, hence the Node exalts here. The
XPart of Fortune is calculated based on the positions of the Sun,
XMoon, and Ascendant; if these three objects are in their ruling
Xsigns, then the Fortune will fall in Pisces, hence the Fortune should
Xrule here. Similarly, if the Sun, Moon, and Ascendant are all in
Xtheir exalting signs, then the Fortune will fall in Aquarius, hence
Xthe Fortune should exalt here. The Midheaven, being the 10th house
Xcusp, corresponds to Capricorn, ruled by Saturn. Hence the
XMidheaven's ruling and exalting signs are the same as Saturn's:
XCapricorn and Libra. The Ascendant corresponds similarly to Mars,
Xhence its ruling and exalting signs are the same: Aries and
XCapricorn. The Vertex, being always near the Descendant, corresponds
Xto Libra, and hence has the same rulership and exaltation as Venus:
XLibra and Pisces.
X
X     The standard chart listing of the planetary positions will also
Xinclude an additional field for the "velocity" of each planet. This
Xvelocity value approximates how fast the planet is moving through the
Xzodiac with respect to the Earth (or whatever the central body is set
Xto) in degrees per day. This value of course, goes negative when a
Xplanet goes retrograde. This is useful not only to get a feel for how
Xfast each planet moves through the zodiac, but to determine when a
Xplanet is about to go retrograde or direct - the value approaches
Xzero when the planet changes direction.
X
X
END_OF_FILE
if test 58887 -ne `wc -c <'Helpfile.p2'`; then
    echo shar: \"'Helpfile.p2'\" unpacked with wrong size!
fi
# end of 'Helpfile.p2'
fi
echo shar: End of archive 9 \(of 12\).
cp /dev/null ark9isdone
MISSING=""
for I in 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 ; do
    if test ! -f ark${I}isdone ; then
	MISSING="${MISSING} ${I}"
    fi
done
if test "${MISSING}" = "" ; then
    echo You have unpacked all 12 archives.
    rm -f ark[1-9]isdone ark[1-9][0-9]isdone
else
    echo You still need to unpack the following archives:
    echo "        " ${MISSING}
fi
##  End of shell archive.
exit 0

exit 0 # Just in case...
