Newsgroups: comp.sources.misc
From: astrolog@u.washington.edu (Astrolog)
Subject: v37i080:  astrolog - Generation of astrology charts v3.05, Part11/12
Message-ID: <1993May19.062102.12530@sparky.imd.sterling.com>
X-Md4-Signature: 1cab14a5e0ea70de015424f7010e4050
Date: Wed, 19 May 1993 06:21:02 GMT
Approved: kent@sparky.imd.sterling.com

Submitted-by: astrolog@u.washington.edu (Astrolog)
Posting-number: Volume 37, Issue 80
Archive-name: astrolog/part11
Environment: UNIX, DOS, VMS
Supersedes: astrolog: Volume 30, Issue 62-69

#! /bin/sh
# This is a shell archive.  Remove anything before this line, then unpack
# it by saving it into a file and typing "sh file".  To overwrite existing
# files, type "sh file -c".  You can also feed this as standard input via
# unshar, or by typing "sh <file", e.g..  If this archive is complete, you
# will see the following message at the end:
#		"End of archive 11 (of 12)."
# Contents:  History.p2
# Wrapped by pul@hardy on Sun May 16 22:23:18 1993
PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/ucb ; export PATH
if test -f 'History.p2' -a "${1}" != "-c" ; then 
  echo shar: Will not clobber existing file \"'History.p2'\"
else
echo shar: Extracting \"'History.p2'\" \(59999 characters\)
sed "s/^X//" >'History.p2' <<'END_OF_FILE'
XHere is a complete list of new features now in Astrolog over version 2.00,
Xlisted in rough order from the most significant to least significant:
X
XA) Color X windows is probably the main new feature added to Astrolog
X   2.10. The charts displayed in color are *much* more eye catching than
X   the old B/W ones, IMHO. Here is how the colors have been assigned for
X   the normal wheel and astro-graph charts: Four colors have been
X   allocated for the four elements - Fire = Red, Earth = Brown, Air =
X   Green, Water = Blue. The various sign glyphs (and the corresponding
X   house labels) are in the color of their element. Planets are in the
X   color of the sign of their main ruler. Chiron and the four asteroids
X   are Gold, while the north node, and other non-physical objects like
X   the fortune and vertex are Violet. Representations of the Ascendant/
X   Descendant/ Midheaven/ Nadir (in the astro-graph map lines and
X   elsewhere) are in the element color of the corresponding sign/house
X   that the angular lines refer to, i.e. Ascendant = Red, Midheaven =
X   Brown, Descendant = Green, Nadir = Blue. A few extra things have been
X   added for color wheel charts only: dark gray lines marking off each
X   house (in addition to the main lines on the horizon and meridian), and
X   each degree instead of every 5th degree being marked in dark gray on
X   the outer circle (every 5th degree being white). Aspects lines are
X   colored too, as follows: Conjunctions = Yellow, Sextiles = Light Blue,
X   Squares = Red, Trines = Green, Oppositions = Dark Blue. For the minor
X   aspects we have: Inconjuncts/Semisextiles = Brown, Semisquares/
X   Sesquiquadratures = Orange, (Bi/Semi)Quintiles = Violet,
X   (Bi/Tri)Septiles = Gold, (Bi/Quatro)Noviles = Pink.
X
XB) For color X systems, the new -Xm switch will create all windows in
X   monochrome B/W mode, as they were in 2.00. In addition, pressing the
X   'm' key within a window will toggle in and out of monochrone mode on
X   color systems.
X
XC) Aspect grid windows with the appropriate aspect glyphs can be
X   displayed by combining the -g option with the -X option (astrolog -g
X   -X). Both the split aspect/midpoint grids labeled down the diagonal,
X   as well as the relationship aspect grids between two charts (astrolog
X   -r <file1> <file2> -g) are supported. The aspects glyphs, objects, and
X   the signs in the grids are in their colors as defined earlier. Like
X   the astro-graph windows, these charts can't be resized in the normal
X   way unless one uses the '>' and '<' keys. For anything less than the
X   largest scale size (achieved with the switch -Xs 300, or by pressing
X   '>' within a window) all that will be displayed in each aspect grid
X   cell is the glyphs of the aspect in effect, the planet being aspected,
X   or the sign of the midpoint. However, once the largest scale size is
X   reached, there is room in each cell to display the aspect orb to the
X   nearest minute off of exact (with a plus or minus sign indicating
X   whether the actual angle is slightly greater than or less than exact);
X   the degree and minute in addition to the sign for midpoints; and the
X   degree and sign location for each planet that's in the grid.
X   Remember, the ASCII aspect grids in earlier versions were rather
X   limited, only displaying orbs to the nearest 0.1 degree, midpoints to
X   the nearest degree, as well as the confusing '.' vs. ',' for angles
X   slightly greater or less than exact (not to mention leaving the vertex
X   out for the relationship grids between two charts). Well no longer: we
X   can now see *real* aspect grids with Astrolog!
X
XD) The -A display aspects option has been extended to display a brief
X   verbal description of what each aspect glyph look like. This is in
X   case one doesn't know what aspects the weird symbols in the -g -X
X   displays are referring to.
X
XE) A new text display switch has been included, -Z, which prints out
X   where each object is on the local horizon in terms of altitude and
X   azimuth. For each object, the following is displayed: Its altitude on
X   the local horizon from +90 degrees (straight up) to -90 degrees
X   (straight down), and its azimuth from 0..360 degrees, where 0 = due
X   east, 90 = north, 180 = west, 270 = south. To make visualizing the
X   azimuth easier, an "azimuth vector" with a N/S component and a W/E
X   component is displayed, e.g. (1.00s 0.33w) means that the object is
X   mainly south, with its true angle being formed by an vector component
X   west that's 1/3 the strength of the south component, i.e. the object
X   is about 18 degrees west of south. This along with the altitude should
X   make it easy to physically point to where any planet is at any moment,
X   making it easy to locate planets in the night sky. This feature can
X   also be used to determine the times that a planet rises and sets.
X   Also displayed are altitude and azimuth differences between each
X   object and the Sun and Moon, first showing the number of degrees that
X   the Sun/Moon is "ahead" (or farther east in the zodiac) of the object
X   in question, and then the number of degrees that the Sun/Moon is above
X   the object in question. This feature can be used to roughly predict
X   eclipses! Both the Sun and Moon span about 0.5 degrees in the sky,
X   therefore if both the azimuth and altitude differences are < 0.5 (or
X   1.0 if the difference is between the Sun and Moon themselves) then the
X   object in question is probably being occulted somewhat by the
X   Sun/Moon. Note that there are three types of planetary position
X   displays: Right ascension and declination showing the object's
X   position with respect to the stars, longitude and latitude showing
X   where on the Earth the object is straight up (as in the astro-graph
X   zenith locations), and finally azimuth and altitude showing the
X   positions of the object relative to the local horizon.
X
XF) This new -Z local horizon feature can be displayed in an X window
X   as well (e.g. astrolog -Z -X), in which all the planets will be
X   displayed in a window depicting the sky. The small dot above or below
X   each glyph indicates exactly where each planet is. (Some of the glyphs
X   may be overlapping, although the program tries to cut down on this.)
X   There is a horizontal line dividing the window representing the local
X   horizon; planets above this line are visible, while planets below it
X   are set. There are three vertical lines dividing the window as well:
X   The middle line represents the due south direction, the one to the
X   left is due east, the one to the right is due west, and the edges of
X   the window are due north. Like the standard chart display, this window
X   may be resized to any proportion. One can press the 'Z' key in any
X   window to enter this display type in that window at any time.
X
XG) Ability to write the actual sign and house positions of a chart to
X   a file (instead of just the time and place) has been implemented via
X   the -o0 <file> option. This option can be used interchangeably with
X   the old -o output to file switch. The information written includes the
X   zodiac position of the 20 main objects, their retrograde status and
X   declination, as well as the positions of the (first six) house cusps.
X   This file information can easily be passed into another program, and
X   can be read back into Astrolog with the -i option. The -i option will
X   automatically determine which type the file is, and will either use
X   the given positions, or else calculate them as needed (note that some
X   switches, such as the -c house system selection, will have no effect
X   for this new file type.) Check an example of one of these files to see
X   the precise format (a zodiac position is recorded as three numbers:
X   degree in sign, sign as 1..12, and floating point minute within
X   degree.) When the files are read back in, they will be flagged as
X   "having no space or time" like the composite charts in the chart
X   header displays.
X
XH) The new file format can allow one to do things such as transits to
X   composite charts (send the composite chart to file with -o0 option and
X   then use that file as the first parameter to the -T option) composites
X   between two composite charts (use -rc between two composite charts
X   sent to a file) and even, if one is willing to do a small amount of
X   editing, to do transits to midpoints or the 0 degrees Aries point.
X   Note that one can easily edit the positions in the -o0 position file
X   to be whatever they like, so one could replace some unimportant object
X   (like the vertex) with 0 degrees Aries or an important midpoint value.
X   Note that trying to still use the -o time and space output with an
X   output chart that doesn't have space/time will confuse the program; it
X   will either say it can't make the file or else will output the
X   time/space of the most recent parameter file it read in.
X
XI) Another file output feature, the ability to concatenate "comment
X   lines" at the end of a data file, been been added to both the -o and
X   -o0 options. (Some people have complained that the info in the
X   Astrolog chart files are too cryptic.) After scanning the filename,
X   the -o[0] option will then write any parameter that follows it at the
X   end of the file, until a parameter beginning with a '-' (the next
X   switch) is reached. For example: -o 'file' "Walter D. Pullen" Seattle
X   will add my name and my birth city in two separate lines at the end of
X   'file'. (In unix, quotes can be used to allow spaces within one
X   parameter.)
X
XJ) Determining dates of transits of progressed planets to natal
X   planets can be done with the new -Tp <file> <month> <year> option.
X   This is just like the -T option, except that the exact aspects of
X   progressed planets (rather than transiting planets) to the planets in
X   'file' are displayed. Again, one can substitute '0' for the month to
X   scan the entire year.
X
XK) Another added progression feature allows determining aspect times
X   of progressed planets among themselves. The -i <file> -dp <month>
X   <year> switch will, like the -d option, display times of aspects and
X   sign changes, except that they will be for the chart in file,
X   progressed throughout the month specified. Progressed planets move
X   very slowly ("year for a day") so therefore there will usually be, if
X   any, only a couple of aspects in a given month; again, one might want
X   to substitute '0' for the month to scan the whole year. Also, since
X   they move so slow, the accuracy is cut down, do the dates given are
X   probably only accurate to the nearest day, in spite of the times given
X   to the minute. Note that Astrolog can now scan for aspects of:
X   transiting planets among themselves (-d switch), transiting planets to
X   natal planets (-T switch), progressed planets to natal planets (-Tp),
X   and progressed planets among themselves (-dp). Only thing Astrolog
X   can't do is do progressed planets to transiting planets, although that
X   may change in the next version :)
X
XL) The new -pn switch is like the -p <month> <date> <year> switch
X   except that (like the -n switch) it assumes the current moment now to
X   cast the progressed chart to. This is just another shorthand
X   convenience to see what ones progressed chart is like presently; just
X   do: astrolog -i file -pn.
X
XM) Determination of latitude crossing points has been added to the
X   astro-graph routines! The new -L0 option will do the same thing as the
X   -L option, except that after displaying the longitude and latitude
X   locations of the Asc/Desc/MC/IC lines, it will then search among the
X   lines and display (in order from farthest North to farthest South) the
X   latitude of any points where lines cross each other. This includes the
X   curvy Asc/Desc lines crossing the straight MC/IC lines as well as
X   cases where different Asc/Desc lines cross themselves. And unlike Jim
X   Lewis' astro*carto*graphy, Astrolog will also display the longitude of
X   the crossing (useful for Asc/Desc crossings) in addition to the
X   latitude (as well allowing more planetary bodies to be included in the
X   scan, and going farther North and South than Jim Lewis' printouts go.)
X   Note however, that there is presently a small (very rare) minor
X   omission glitch in the code, where if a crossing is within a couple of
X   degrees of 180 deg W/E, it may not be displayed.
X
XN) Change the default orbs of the various aspects with the -Ao <orb1>
X   <orb2>... <orbn> switch. Do you not like the 7 degree orbs for
X   conjunctions that are in there by default? One can change the first n
X   aspect orbs (i.e. as many orb values that one puts after the -Ao)
X   anywhere from just the conjunction to all 18 aspects. Non-integer
X   values are allowed of course. Use negative orb values to completely
X   eliminate an aspect from ever appearing. For example: astrolog -A 6
X   -Ao 5 5 -1 10 narrows the orbs for Conjunction and Opposition,
X   completely eliminates the Square, widens the orb for Trines, and
X   leaves the Sextiles and Inconjuncts in the default values. Note that
X   for very wide orbs more than one aspect may apply for a particular
X   angle, in which case the more fundamental aspect is chosen. Also for
X   wide aspects the decimal value of the orb may be lost in the -g text
X   grid (due to too many characters) and their might be some slight
X   overlap in the X window -g cells.
X
XO) Note that Astrolog imposes restrictions on the max orb that any
X   particular aspect can have to certain particular objects, namely the
X   node, fortune, and vertex, which can't have aspects to them in excess
X   of 2 degrees. One can suspend these restrictions by replacing the -Ao
X   <orbs> option above, invoking it as -AO <orbs> instead. For a fun (and
X   perhaps useful) display, try: astrolog -A 1 -AO 180 -g [-X], and see
X   everything conjunct everything else.
X
XP) Search through the aspect grid for major aspect configurations,
X   including Grand Trines, T-Squares, Grand Crosses, Yod's, and Cradles
X   with the -g0 option. This option will produce the same aspect grid
X   that -g displays, but afterwards will go through the grid and list any
X   of these aspect configurations and what objects are forming them. Of
X   course, to see any Yod's, one has to -A 6 or more so that Inconjuncts
X   will be included in the aspect grid.
X   
XQ) Display the locations of the "Uranian" planets with the -u switch.
X   Transneptunian or Uranian planets are an interesting subset of
X   astrology which includes various objects alleged to be beyond Pluto
X   (or something like that, I'm just the programmer). Anyway, Astrolog
X   can display the zodiac positions of these bodies as well, and will do
X   this by taking the eight Uranian bodies and literally replacing
X   Mercury..Pluto with them. (Do: astrolog -u -O to list them.) This
X   replacement will allow the Uranians to be included in Astrolog's
X   various options, although of course this means that they can't
X   interact with Mercury..Pluto in any way. (Note, I didn't bother to
X   change the X glyphs or sign rulerships since I don't know what they
X   are for the Uranians.)
X
XR) Decan displays are now supported in Astrolog, and one can display a
X   decan influenced chart with the -3 switch. The decan theory is that
X   each sign in the zodiac can be divided into three parts: The first 10
X   degrees (i.e. the first decan) is mainly influenced by the sign in
X   question, the second 10 degrees (second decan) although still
X   influenced by the sign in question is also somewhat influenced by the
X   next sign of the same element, while the last decan is influenced by
X   the third sign of the same element. The -3 switch applied to a chart
X   will move each object into the sign of its decan. For example, if the
X   Sun is at 29 degrees Aquarius and the Moon at 5 degrees Virgo, in the
X   resulting chart, the Sun will go to Libra (26 degrees) and the Moon
X   will remain in Virgo (although be at 15 degrees now since it was
X   previously in the middle of the first decan of Virgo.)
X
XS) In the -w text wheel option, the objects in each house are printed
X   from top to bottom in order from earliest in the house to latest. This
X   looks good except for in houses 5..8 where this appears backwards
X   (i.e. a planet having just entered the 6th house from the 5th is
X   displayed right under the Descendant.) Replace -w with the -w0 switch
X   and the objects from houses 4 through 9 will be reversed and printed
X   in order from bottom to top, making a more flowing looking chart.
X
XT) The new -q0 <month> <date> <year> <time> option takes the four
X   parameters and casts a chart for the time in question. The time zone
X   and location are taken from the default compiled values. This is just
X   yet another useful shorthand way to quickly make a chart. Note that
X   this is just like the -q <month> <date> <year> option except that -q
X   always casts it for noon in the default zone. Also note that the -a
X   option which takes all seven chart parameters can be duplicated with
X   -q0 along with the -z <zone> and -l <long> <lat> options.
X
XU) A couple of new compile time option variables have been added to
X   the include file astrolog.h. For those people who don't like Placidus,
X   a new default house system can be set to the value from 0..9
X   indicating what system to use if the user doesn't explicitly specify
X   it with -c, Another thing: It must be mentioned that although the
X   accuracy of Sun..Pluto and Chiron are to the nearest minute for years
X   1900-2000, the four asteroids are relatively inaccurate and can even
X   be a couple of degrees off in the worse case. Also, some people just
X   don't like or care about the minor bodies. If you don't want these
X   values to appear by default, there is a new #define that can be
X   commented out so that it will be as if -R is always included when the
X   program is run. (Simply do -R to get them back if you compile it this
X   way.) There is a new feature added to all the X window displays which
X   can toggle the restriction status of the asteroids and other minors.
X   Press the 'R' (restrict) key in the window and the screen will be
X   redrawn with the restriction status of these toggled.
X
XV) The -Xn [<value>] option can be used to start up an X window in
X   animation mode. Before, one would have to explicitly press 'N' or a
X   shift+number key to start the window animation. Without a parameter
X   after -Xn, the option will start it up in continuous update to "now"
X   mode (which is like pressing 'N' in that any chart will be erased with
X   the current chart now.) The switch can accept parameters from 1..9,
X   corresponding to the animation rates obtained by pressing shift 1..9
X   in the window, i.e. update whatever chart is passed to it seconds,
X   minutes, hours, days, months, years, etc. later each time.
X
XW) Familiar with ley lines? They are energy lines crossing the Earth.
X   I was experimenting earlier with the master ley line grids on the
X   Earth (in the pattern of an overlapped 20 sided Icosahedron and 12
X   sided Dodecahedron) and I figured Astrolog with it's world map would
X   be an interesting program to explore this with. The -XW world map
X   display option is always still, and can never be animated. If however
X   one tries to animate it, either by the -Xn switch or pressing 'N' in
X   the window, a new display showing the ley lines will be shown.
X   Actually this is mainly a hack, but I figured I would leave it in
X   there for amusement and inspiration. Hackers note: there is an
X   interesting "bug" that can arise with the -XW as well as the -XG (and
X   -XP, described below) switches: These displays can be brought up
X   without having to specify an actual chart. Now suppose one presses
X   'C', 'W', etc. to bring up a chart - what will be displayed? The
X   answer will be whatever default values were already there, and if
X   you're curious, I set to be the time of the New Moon on 1-4-1992 at
X   11:11pm GMT at Greenwich England. (i.e. one week before the 11:11)
X
XX) The -XP option will generate a polar view of the Earth as a globe.
X   This is like the -XG globe option except that the view is from the top
X   (or bottom) and therefore doesn't rotate. By default, the view is
X   looking down on the north pole with 0 deg W/E toward the bottom of the
X   screen. To see a (fixed) view of the south pole hemisphere, go into
X   animation mode. Again, like with all the other X window display
X   options, one can enter this display with a keystroke: press 'P' in any
X   Astrolog window and it will revert to this display.
X
XY) A couple of conveniences for the X window features have been added.
X   Note that the -Xo <bitmapfilename> option is only used in conjunction
X   with the -Xb write output to bitmap switch. Therefore, I have -Xo
X   automatically assume -Xb is set. (Invoking -Xb itself without -Xo will
X   have the program prompt the user for the bitmap filename.) In other
X   words, astrolog -Xb -Xo 'file' is the same as just astrolog -Xo
X   'file'. (This may change if I add other file types, but for now none
X   are planned.) Also, I should mention that Astrolog includes it's own
X   appropriate bitmap if one iconifies the window, instead of reverting
X   to the braindead UnknownIcon as it did before.
X
XZ) A few other minor things have been done to the program, such as the
X   -H help switch displays more information (e.g. what the difference
X   between -T and -T0 is) as well as mentioning for X that you can press
X   the 'H' key while within the X window to get a list of all the neat
X   things you can do in window once it's already been created.
X
X
XI could have added a bunch of other features to this version, but as
Xyou can see, I ran out of letters :) Oh well, wait for version 2.20!
XRemember now that the -e everything switch includes a lot more chart
Xinformation in it since there are more features now.
X
X
XHere is the list of bug fixes over version 2.00,
Xlisted in rough order from the most major to the least major:
X
X1) I inadvertently disabled the -p progression option while updating
X   the program from version 1.40 to 2.00, so that it would produce
X   progressed charts way off. This has been fixed and the program
X   produces those charts as well as it did in version 1.40 and before.
X2) There was a bug in the midpoint routine which would yield results
X   180 degrees off occasionally when the two points being passed to the
X   routine were themselves almost 180 degrees apart. This would mainly
X   affect composite charts and the midpoint grid. This has been fixed for
X   all cases now.
X3) Some composite charts where the house cusps in the two charts are
X   almost 180 degrees apart would have the composite cusps in
X   non-sequential order, 180 degrees apart from where they should be,
X   e.g. two opposing cusps could be interchanged. The program now makes
X   sure this won't happen, and takes corrective measures if necessary.
X   Also, composite charts are no longer displayed in the chart headers
X   with a bunch of 0's for the date, time, etc. Composite charts are
X   properly labeled as being such, while only charts that exists in
X   space/time will have their coordinates printed.
X4) Some of the values in the header displays, such as time, long/lat,
X   etc, would occasionally be displayed one number higher than they
X   should be, due to improperly rounding up. This has been fixed. A few
X   other minor display areas have been fixed, e.g. in the heliocentric
X   planet list -h -O, Earth was abbreviated as "Eart" before.
X5) In the -w text wheel option, the objects in each house are supposed
X   to be printed from top to bottom in order from earliest in the house
X   to latest. The program did this correctly except for cases in which a
X   house spanned 0 degrees Aries, in which case the Aries planets would
X   be printed before the Pisces planets. This should be the other way
X   around, as it is now.
X6) I probably should have made the -g text aspect grid and the -E
X   ephemeris display be able to be affected by the -R restrictions. They
X   weren't before and they are now.
X7) Some of my very bad X windows programming in version 2.00 has been
X   cleaned up, as least slightly. The program no longer core dumps if the
X   DISPLAY environment variable isn't set properly. Before, the windows
X   would come up white on black on some machines, and yet black on white
X   on others; now as expected everything will come up white on black
X   unless one specifies otherwise with the -Xr switch. Finally, a couple
X   of people have mentioned that version 2.00 would eat up *lots* of cpu
X   even while doing nothing (unless in 'p'ause mode). Also while in pause
X   mode, uncovering part of the Astrolog window would leave that part
X   blank until pause mode was left. Now, Astrolog doesn't eat cpu unless
X   it's doing something useful, and it will always redraw its windows if
X   unmapped.
X8) Some things that caused problems for PC users have been corrected;
X   Astrolog now is explicitly declaring 32 bit longs in places where the
X   PC assuming 16 bit ints would cause problems, as well as eliminating a
X   couple of unnecessary declarations and adding some more declarations
X   which aren't necessary for unix but would confuse a PC.
X
XNote for PC users: I have tried to make this program as much
Xexecutable on personal computers and other non-unix systems as
Xpossible. Although this version should be easier to compile than
Xprevious ones were, still there are probably some things I've
Xforgotten/left out. For instance, for as least one person the
Xoptions.c and formulas.c files were too long in version 2.00 and had
Xto be split again, so one should be aware of these possible factors.
X
XUnfortunately, I am graduating in a little over a month from now, and
Xtherefore probably won't be able to work on or support Astrolog much
Xunless I can get another account somewhere. Still, I hope to release
Xan Astrolog 2.20 in another month, perhaps including features like
Xfixed star tracking. (Have you Sun conjunct the Pleiades? Find out!)
X
XI wish to express thanks to the many people who have pointed out the
Xbugs (and have made suggestions for new features) in this (as well as
Xprevious) versions so that they could be corrected. You know who you
Xare! :) As the Sun leaves Aquarius after the Full Moon let's remember
Xthe power of unified effort; and of course the Sun will soon be back
Xin Aquarius, perhaps next time in the Age of Aquarius!
X
X
X************************************************
XAstrolog 2.20 posted Wed,  3 Jun 92 00:25:40 GMT
X************************************************
X
XThis file describes the new features, changes, and bug fixes in
Xversion 2.20 of Astrolog (over the previous version, 2.10, posted 3.5
Xmonths ago). Although this new version is a stand alone program, this
XUpdate file requires knowledge of the features of version 2.10 in
Xorder to make sense. If you aren't familiar with version 2.10, get and
Xread the version 2.10 Helpfile which describes all its features from
Xthe alt.astrology ftp site at hilbert.maths.utas.edu.au, or from any
Xcomp.sources.misc archive.
X
XJust some of the new things contained in Astrolog 2.20 are: Fixed star
Xpositions, spatial astronomical charts of the solar system, and a
Xcouple of other things non-astrologer astronomers would like. Also
Xadded are new kinds of and more support for relationship charts, and
Xthe nascent beginnings of an interpretation feature, along with other
Xthings non-astronomer astrologers would like. Ability to scan a data
Xfile for program defaults has been added, allowing changes to be made
Xto the program without recompiling, along with a bunch of funky
Xadditions to the X graphics features.
X
X----
X
XImportant: A few changes have been made to the program, i.e. not just
Xnew features but some things that were true for version 2.10 are no
Xlonger valid. A list of these changes follows:
X
X1) First of all, every object (planets, minor house cusps, uranians,
X   and stars) has its own "number", displayable in the -O list. No more
X   ugly hacks of overwriting some planets with the uranian positions in
X   the -u option. There is virtually no difference between a planet and a
X   house cusp. The default is still the first 20 objects to keep the
X   charts looking the same as before, although one can have a chart with
X   all 78 objects (one for each tarot card ;) if they like. For example,
X   the -u uranian switch will now display the uranian locations after
X   everything else in the standard chart display. You get what you ask
X   for, and what you don't want must be explicitly -R restricted.
X
X2) As a result of the above, the minor house cusps (11th, 12th, 2nd,
X   3rd) are no longer included in the -T transit list by default. If you
X   want them, you must explicitly specify you want them (with the -C cusp
X   option described later). Also, the relationship chart aspect grid now
X   includes the vertex (before it only included the first 19 objects) and
X   as a result the display will unfortunately exceed 80 columns, unless
X   you explicitly restrict one of them with the -R option.
X
X3) The program now makes a distinction between synastry charts, and
X   the actual comparison between two charts. Before the -r option would
X   combine the two charts in synastry, unless it was the -g option, in
X   which case the contents of both charts would be compared in an aspect
X   grid. Now -r is only for synastry, and combinations such as "-r chart1
X   chart2 -g" or "-r chart1 chart2 -g -X" will display the aspects within
X   the synastry chart itself. To actually have two charts side by side,
X   use the -r0 option described later, instead of -r.
X
X4) To display the ley lines in the -XW world map window, or to see the
X   southern hemisphere in the -XP polar chart, one had to enter animation
X   mode before, a hack which of course had nothing to do with animation.
X   This "bonus information" is now in a separate feature, accessed with
X   the -Xi switch described later.
X
X5) In an X window, pressing the 'S' key would resize the window to be
X   a square, and the 'C' key would revert the mode back to the standard
X   wheel chart. These two keys presently do other operations described
X   later, and the above functions are now accessed by the 'Q' and 'V'
X   keys respectively.
X
X6) The chart information at the bottom of the window is now included
X   by default, while before it wasn't. To remove it, press the 'T' key in
X   the window or use the -XT switch described later.
X
X7) The -w and -w0 switches both display the same text wheel chart, but
X   in slightly different ways. They have been reversed in function, since
X   the -w0 chart looked better.
X
X8) The "default" chart, i.e. the initial values in the chart
X   parameters that are used if one forces a chart to be used when one is
X   not expected, e.g. combining the -XW and -o switches, has been
X   changed. Before, I had put in the data for the 11:11pm GMT New Moon on
X   1-4-1992, but now I have changed it to the chart for this version of
X   Astrolog itself: 5-31-1992 9pm PDT Seattle, WA.
X
X9) Finally, concerning the source code itself, there are two new
X   files: options.c has been split into the new file charts.c, and
X   graphics.c has been split into the new file xcharts.c.
X
X----
X
XNow, a comprehensive list of the features and extensions added to this
Xversion of Astrolog follows:
X
XA) -S switch: A new chart type is available - solar system space
X   charts, which give the astronomical positions of each planet in terms
X   of x, y, and z coordinates. Although not directly useful
X   astrologically, it does give one a good view of how the planets
X   actually were positioned at the time in question. For example, normal
X   astrology doesn't make the distinction between the four different
X   "forms" of say, a Mercury Venus Conjunction, i.e. they can either be
X   Conjunct on the near side of the Sun, Conjunct on the far side of the
X   Sun, or one can be on one side and the other on the other side. When
X   the chart is actually displayed, for each body the following
X   information is printed: The relative angle of the planet with respect
X   to the central body, i.e. its zodiac position converted to the
X   appropriate number from 0..360. This is followed by the x, y, and z
X   coordinate positions of the object, in astronomical units from the
X   central body. The x-axis increases in the direction of 0 degrees Aries
X   (tropical zodiac), the y-axis increases in the direction of 0 degrees
X   Cancer, and the z-axis is with respect to the Earth's orbit (meaning
X   that the Sun and Earth always have a z-axis value of 0.0). Finally the
X   overall length from the central body in AU is printed, which is just
X   the diagonal as indicated by the x, y, z vectors. (The Earth and Sun
X   are of course always about 1.0 AU from each other.) The Moon circles
X   the Earth and isn't a part of the solar system proper; therefore, it
X   is never in these charts. The -e everything option will include this
X   chart in it's listing of all the chart displays.
X
X   The -S switch can be combined with -X to give an X window chart of the
X   solar system. This will be displayed as an aerial view of the entire
X   solar system, with 0 degrees Aries to the left of the screen, and 0
X   degrees Cancer to the bottom. Note that this chart includes all
X   possible planets, including the Earth (whose glyph is a cross inside a
X   circle). Whatever object is chosen to be the central body is at the
X   center of the screen, with all the others around it. This is a fun
X   chart to animate - watch the planets go around the Sun, and *see* how
X   they turn retrograde with respect to the Earth. In addition to the
X   bodies themselves, twelve spokes are drawn from the center body to the
X   edge of the screen, which delineate the zodiac with respect to it.
X   Note that the scale of the solar system is large; attempting to fit
X   all the planets out to Pluto on the screen at once will cause all the
X   inner planets to be crammed together near the middle of the screen. To
X   deal with this, the scale size as indicated with the -Xs switch and
X   the '<' and '>' keys will affect how much of the solar system is
X   viewed at once (in addition to the glyph sizes). For a scale size of
X   300, the viewport will have a radius of 6 AU (about out to the orbit
X   of Jupiter; useful for viewing the inner planets). For a scale size of
X   200 (default), it will have a radius of 30 AU (enough to include
X   Neptune, and Pluto most of the time). Finally, a scale size of 100
X   will result in a radius of 90 AU, enough to easily include the entire
X   solar system, as well as the orbits of the alleged Uranian bodies
X   beyond Pluto.
X
XB) -I switch: Another new chart type is available - interpretation of
X   influences. This is the beginning of a general interpretation ability
X   for the program, although all it does now is calculate the relative
X   "power" of each planet's placement, giving a general idea of the
X   prominent areas of a chart. When such a chart is printed, each planet
X   is given a point value, larger numbers indicating more strength. Each
X   planet's strength is divided between two fields: the positioning in
X   and of itself, and the power of the aspects it makes with the other
X   planets. In addition to each field, the total of these two areas is
X   printed, as well as the relative percentage of the planet in question
X   with respect to all the planets combined. Each planet gets a ranking
X   for its positioning, aspects, and total power as well, with the
X   strongest getting #1, the next strongest #2, etc. The -e option will
X   include this chart as well in it's listing of all the chart displays.
X
X   To determine the strength of the positioning of a planet, various
X   things are taken into account: 1) The power of a planet in and of
X   itself, e.g. the Sun and Moon are more powerful then the other
X   planets. 2) The house placement of a planet, e.g. a planet in the 1st
X   house is more powerful than one in the 2nd. 3) Whether a planet is in
X   the sign it rules or is exalted in, e.g. Jupiter in Sag results in
X   more power to Jupiter. 4) Whether a planet is in the house
X   corresponding to the sign it rules or is exalted in, e.g. Jupiter in
X   the 9th house. 5) Planets get more power if the signs they rule are
X   occupied, e.g. a bunch of stuff in Aquarius gives more power to
X   Uranus. 6) Planets get more power if the houses they rule are
X   occupied, e.g. a bunch of stuff in the 11th house gives power to
X   Uranus. 7) Finally, planets get power according to what houses the
X   cusps of which fall in the signs they rule, i.e. the ruler of the
X   Ascendant (and to less extent the Midheaven, and so on) gets lots of
X   influence. Determining the strength of a planet's aspects is much
X   easier, and is basically composed of the sum of the strength of each
X   aspect the planet makes. Taken into account are: 1) The inherent
X   influence of the planet being aspected to, e.g. Sun conjunct Jupiter
X   gives more influence to Jupiter than Mercury conjunct Jupiter would.
X   2) The influence of the aspect itself, e.g. Oppositions are more
X   powerful then Sextiles. 3) Finally the orb of the aspect, i.e. exact
X   aspects are more powerful than wide ones. (The influence of the orb
X   varies linearly from max power at exact to zero power at the limit of
X   the orb - sorry Maggie M. and Mark K. - no complex aspect wave
X   functions, at least for this version :)
X
X   Special thanks goes to Mark K. who initially presented this idea of
X   interpreting overall influences to me. I basically just took his
X   ideas, polished them a bit, and put it into the code. Interestingly,
X   while programming this feature, I had a dream about him, in which he
X   elaborated upon some of the ideas and even gave me suggestions for
X   some of the planets' default power values (astral visitation?) And,
X   while on the subject, I've had a couple of other Astrolog dreams; I
X   had one neat one while working on the -h extension (described later)
X   about a far distant future version of Astrolog that could actually
X   teleport one to the places which they cast charts for :)
X
XC) -v switch: This isn't really a new feature, but rather a formal
X   specification for the standard chart listing of the planetary
X   positions. Before, one would get this chart by default if they didn't
X   specify any other chart types, and they would get it along with
X   everything else in the -e option, but there was never any formal
X   switch for it. In other words, before there was no way to, for
X   example, display the standard chart, followed by an aspect grid, since
X   there was no switch to choose the standard chart. Now, one can specify
X   "-v -g" and get the above mentioned combination.
X
XD) -v addition: The standard chart listing of the planetary positions
X   has been expanded to include an extra field for the "velocity" of each
X   planet. This velocity value approximates how fast the planet is moving
X   through the zodiac with respect to the Earth (or whatever the central
X   body is set to) in degrees per day. This value of course, goes
X   negative when a planet goes retrograde. This is useful not only to get
X   a feel for how fast each planet moves through the zodiac, but to
X   determine when a planet is about to go retrograde or direct - the
X   value approaches zero when the planet changes direction.
X
XE) -v0 switch: This switch is just like -v except that it modifies the
X   planet velocities slightly. Normally, it isn't a trivial task to
X   determine precisely when a planet is going to change direction. This
X   is because, for example, although a velocity of 0.010 degrees/day for
X   fast moving Mercury means it's about to turn retrograde, the same
X   velocity value is normal for slow moving Pluto. The -v0 switch divides
X   the normal velocity values by how fast each planet moves with respect
X   to the Sun, meaning that all planets will now have an average
X   *relative* velocity value of 1.000, and in all cases, a velocity of
X   2.000 means the planet is moving twice as fast as normal, and one of
X   0.010 means the planet is about to turn retrograde.
X
XF) -d addition: The -d aspect search routine has been expanded to
X   calculate and display the times when a planet changes direction.
X   Before, in such a listing, it would be shown whenever a planet changed
X   direction during a day, but the exact time of the station wouldn't be
X   printed for it.
X
XG) -U switch: Astrolog 2.20 has the ability to display the positions
X   of 46 of the brightest and most important stars in the sky. To include
X   these stars in a chart, use the -U "universe" option. The 43 brightest
X   stars, i.e. all those with apparent magnitude values < 2.0 are
X   included, in addition to three dimmer stars which are considered
X   significant, i.e.: Polaris the North star, the Pleiades star cluster
X   (home of our extraterrestrial cousins), and Zeta Reticuli (home of the
X   Grey aliens.) One bright star is called "Orion", which is formally
X   Alnilam, the middle star of Orion's belt. Since stars are fixed in
X   the sky, they will never change position in the -s siderial zodiac,
X   although they will slowly precess forward in the normal tropical
X   zodiac. The -R restriction option can be used to determine which stars
X   are actually included, although the -U option needs to be included to
X   get any stars at all. In X windows, the stars are denoted by three
X   letter abbreviations (as are the uranians and minor house cusps), and
X   are colored according to their brightness: yellow for stars brighter
X   than (less than) magnitude 0.0, gold for dimmer ones from 0.0 to 1.0,
X   orange for those from 1.0 to 2.0, and finally the dimmest special
X   stars with a magnitude greater than 2.0 are red.
X
X   In the -v standard chart, -Z horizon chart, and in the -O object list,
X   where all the stars are printed sequentially, it can sometimes be
X   confusing to locate the star you want among 42 others. The -U option
X   can be modified to sort the stars in various ways. If one uses -Ub
X   instead of just -U, the stars will be listed in order from brightest
X   to dimmest. Doing -Un instead of -U will alphabetize the stars by
X   name. -Ul will sort them by their altitude from highest in the sky to
X   lowest, while -Uz will sort them by their zodiac position. Note that
X   any star ordering will have no visible effect in X windows, and one
X   must still use the default ordering when passing numbers to the -R
X   option to restrict various stars.
X
XH) -C switch: This new option must be indicated to include the four
X   minor house cusps (i.e. 11th, 12th, 2nd, 3rd) in the various chart
X   options, such as the -g aspect grids, -T transit searches, the X wheel
X   chart, etc. This option of course won't have any effect on certain
X   charts where only physical bodies are shown (e.g. -Z, -S, -L) or where
X   all house cusps are already indicated in the chart (e.g. -v, -w).
X
XI) -O0 switch: The old -O switch simply displays a list of all the
X   objects, cusps, uranians, and stars, along with their index numbers.
X   This list can be affected by the -R restrictions, and the -C, -u, and
X   -U switches must be included in order for all of Astrolog's objects to
X   get listed. In order to make it easier to simply display a list of all
X   78 objects Astrolog recognizes, the new -O0 option is just like -O
X   (and is equivalent to "-C -u -U -O") except that it will ignore all
X   restrictions and always list every object. Stars are printed in the
X   list along with their azimuth, altitude, and brightness values.
X   (Remember that when -O is encountered, it immediately executes and
X   terminates the program, so any modifying switches must be before it.)
X
XJ) -RC, -Ru, -RU switches: These three switches are similar to the -R0
X   option in that they initially restrict objects, i.e. all the minor
X   cusps, Uranians, and stars, respectively from appearing. For example,
X   if you want to include only the star Sirius in an X window chart
X   without having to also include all the other stars (or having to enter
X   a very long restriction list), do: "astrolog -U -RU 48 -X", which will
X   include the stars, and then restrict them all except Sirius, before
X   making the chart.
X
XK) -h <arg> expansion: The -h switch which allowed heliocentric charts
X   to be computed has been expanded to allow charts to be cast with any
X   planet as the center. The option takes a parameter to indicate which
X   object to center the chart on, e.g. do -h 5 to cast a Mars centered
X   chart. (Moon centered charts are not allowed.) As before, -h by itself
X   means to do a heliocentric chart.
X
XL) -rm <file1> <file2> switch: Time-space midpoint relationship charts
X   are now supported. Doing "-rm chart1 chart2" will calculate the time
X   and location exactly half way between the times and locations as
X   indicated in the two files. Unlike all other types of relationship
X   charts, this one actually exists in space and time, and therefore can
X   be treated like a single chart and can be output with the -o option.
X
XM) -r0 <file1> <file2> switch: A distinction has now been made between
X   synastry relationship charts and the actual comparison between two
X   separate charts. The -r0 option must be used to generate these
X   comparison charts, e.g. the aspect grid between the planets of two
X   charts (and the new X chart described later). The -r0 option will act
X   like the -r synastry option in certain displays that can't compare two
X   charts; for example, "-r chart1 chart2 -g" and "-r0 chart1 chart2 -g"
X   are different, because one generates the aspect grid within a synastry
X   chart, and the other an aspect grid between all the planets in the two
X   charts, but "-r chart1 chart2 -v" and "-r0 chart1 chart2 -v" will do
X   the same thing. (Note: the "-t file" current transit option is
X   basically a shorthand way of doing "-r0 file now".)
X
XN) -G switch: This switch generates a special type of locational
X   analysis chart, called a geodetic chart, in which the house cusps are
X   computed from a different source, i.e. as a function of only the
X   longitude and latitude. This basically gives every spot on the planet
X   a different unique set of house cusps, and can be used to analyze the
X   characteristics of different areas, and their influence on you if you
X   insert your own planets in the houses. This type of chart was
X   described in the January 1992 issue of Dell Horoscope magazine, from
X   which I learned how to generate these charts. Basically, the Midheaven
X   is approximately the longitude value converted from degrees into the
X   appropriate zodiac sign; for example 0 degrees E goes to 0 degrees
X   Aries, 30 degrees E goes to 0 degrees Taurus, etc.
X
XO) -L <arg> addition: For text screens, one can pass an optional
X   parameter to the -L or -L0 astro-graph option to give the latitude
X   step rate at which the Ascendant and Descendant lines are computed.
X   This value is by default 5 degrees, although one can may increase or
X   decrease it to any integer (subject to the restriction that the number
X   160 is divisible by it.)
X
XP) -g0 addition: A new planetary configuration has been added to this
X   option. In addition to flagging the Grand Trines, T-Squares, and so
X   on, any chart Stellium's are located. In a Stellium, three objects
X   must all be conjunct with each other.
X
XQ) -ga switch: Ability to determine whether an aspect is applying or
X   separating (is about to happen or just happened) has been added to the
X   -g option. Normally the aspect orbs are flagged as being + or - based
X   on whether they are greater or less than the proper amount (e.g. a 91
X   degree Square has a +1 degree orb while a 89 degree one a -1 orb.) If
X   one, however, invokes the -g option as -ga instead, a negative orb
X   will indicate an applying aspect while a positive orb a separating
X   one. (To estimate applying vs. separating, the program examines the
X   planetary positions and their velocities at the time in question.)
X
XR) -g0 expansion: For relationship aspect grids, the -g0 option will
X   display a midpoint grid instead of an aspect grid between the planets
X   in the two charts e.g. "-r0 chart1 chart2 -g0". Before, the -g0 switch
X   with comparison charts wouldn't behave any different from just -g.
X
XS) -s0 switch: For astronomers out there, the new -s0 option will
X   print all planetary positions in the right ascension hours/minutes
X   format instead of the sign/degrees/minutes astrologers are accustomed
X   to. This will affect how the objects are listed in the -v display, and
X   how the star azimuths are displayed in the -O list. For example, 0
X   degrees Aries is represented as 0 hr, 0 min; 0 Cancer goes to 6 hr, 0
X   min, and so on through the 24 hour clock.
X
XT) -p0 <arg> switch: User definable progression rates can be specified
X   with this new option. When using the -p progression option, Astrolog
X   assumes you want the standard "year for a day" rate of secondary
X   progressions. By passing different values to the -p0 switch, one can
X   change the default "365.25 days for a day" to any value they want for
X   some less often used method of progression. For example, one can do
X   "-p0 7 -pn" to do a week for a day, "-p0 -365.25 -pn" to get negative
X   year for day progressions, and so on. (Note that "-p0 1" would be the
X   same as if no progression were done at all.)
X
XU) -z expansion: Normally the -z option takes an argument which will
X   then become the default time zone. If one, however, invokes it by
X   itself, it will subtract one hour from whatever the default time zone
X   presently is. This is useful since it is equivalent to adjusting any
X   times printed to Daylight time, i.e. it will add one hour to any times
X   displayed. (When entering the birth time for charts, one is supposed
X   to subtract one hour if Daylight time was in effect; note that
X   subtracting one hour from the time zone will do the same thing.) For
X   example, over here on the West Coast, I have my default time zone
X   compiled to be "8"; now that Daylight time is in effect here, I can do
X   -z 7 or just -z to decrease the default time zone when I make a -T
X   transit list, which will in effect add one hour to the local times
X   displayed, or in effect "Spring ahead" the clock for me. (For a better
X   way of adjusting Astrolog for Daylight time without having to specify
X   -z all the time, recompile the program, or add one hour to the times
X   in your head, use the "defaults" file described later to change the
X   time zone.) Remember that the -z (and -l) switches must be before any
X   other switches they modify (such as -n) in order for the new default
X   to take effect.
X
XV) -- <arg> switch: This new "dash minus" option is just like the old
X   "dash plus" (-+) option that's already in place, except it subtracts
X   instead of adds the specified number of days from any chart cast. This
X   is only for convenience, in that "-- 1" is the same as "-+ -1".
X
XW) -w expansion: Chart header information has been added to the -w
X   text wheel chart option. Before, the space in the middle of the chart
X   was left blank, but now displayed in it is the same header info as is
X   at the top of the standard -v chart.
X
XX) There are now wider orbs allowed for the Sun and Moon in the aspect
X   grids. Normally, only the aspect in question determines the allowed
X   orb, but the Sun and Moon will now each add 1 degree to whatever the
X   orb would have been. (This excludes minor objects such as the North
X   Node, Part of Fortune, Vertex, and all the stars, for which the orbs
X   are not allowed to ever exceed two degrees.)
X
XY) When specifying command switches, the leading dashes are optional,
X   and aren't necessary any more. For example, the command "astrolog -i
X   chartfile -R -u -U -Z -Xs 300 -Xi -XB" can be abbreviated as "astrolog
X   i chartfile R u U Z Xs 300 Xi XB". (This is subject to a couple of
X   minor limitations, in that one can't have the -1 or -3 option follow a
X   -R restriction list of numbers, for obvious reasons.)
X
X----
X
XAstrolog 2.20 includes the ability to search an input file for various
Xdefault parameters to use in the program. This allows one to easily
Xchange major defaults without having to recompile the program, which
Xis useful if, say, one receives a compiled executable from a friend
Xwho had a different configuration. The program looks for the file
X"astrolog.dat" in the current directory, and if not there, looks for
Xit in the default directory. Parameters in this file will override any
Xdefaults compiled into the program, although the highest priority is
Xstill given to the command line options. Note one doesn't *have* to
Xhave this file in order to run the program - if not found Astrolog
Xwill still run as before. Presently, the parameters one can change in
Xthis file are: default time zone (as indicated with -z option),
Xdefault longitude and latitude (as in -l option), number of aspects
X(-A option), default house system to use (values as in -c option).
XThen come default restriction values (as with -R option) for the first
X20 objects (0 = active, 1 = restricted). Next are the orbs (as with
X-Ao option) for the 18 aspects. Finally, comes a long list of the
Xinfluence values used by the -I option, i.e. the power values of each
Xof the first 20 planet objects, of the 12 houses, and of the 18
Xaspects. The only major thing that one *can't* change in the file is
Xthe default directory path in which the program looks in for input
Xfiles if not in the current directory, since Astrolog needs the
Xdefault directory in order to be able to locate the file in the first
Xplace! The "astrolog.dat" file included with this version of the
Xprogram has some "comment lines" describing what is contained in each
Xline. One can chance or delete comments as long as they make sure that
Xan equals sign ('=') immediately proceeds any value or list of values,
Xsince the program uses this character to determine where comments end.
X
X----
X
XAdditional new features and extensions follow below; however, these
Xonly affect the graphics portions of the program, and therefore only
Xcome into play if the X11 compile time option is set.
X
XA) True relationship wheel charts can now be displayed in a window,
X   i.e. where the planets of both charts are displayed in separate rings
X   of the same wheel. Use the -r0 option to display this comparison type.
X   For example, for the command "astrolog -r0 person1 person2 -X", the
X   following is displayed: The signs and houses as in person1's chart are
X   drawn in the outermost part of the wheel. Inside this is a ring of
X   person2's planets as displayed in person1's houses, and inside of this
X   are person1's own planets. Finally at the very middle is an aspect
X   grid, which shows those aspects that are occurring between the objects
X   in the two charts. Basically this is just the standard wheel chart for
X   person1, except that person2's planets are in an outer ring of objects
X   and the aspect grid shows the aspects of the relationship. Putting
X   such a chart in animation mode only affects person2's planets, so this
X   is a great way to analyze transits: Doing "astrolog -t yourchartfile
X   -X" will show all your current transits, and allow you to easily
X   animate the transiting planets through your natal signs and houses.
X
XB) More color: For color X terminals, the -XG globe display and -XW
X   world map display are now done with the continents in different
X   colors! This makes them look much better than before. Each of the
X   seven continents is in a different color of the rainbow, and the
X   colors are chosen to correspond to the appropriate chakra (etheric
X   energy vortex along the human spine) that goes with each land mass.
X   They are: Africa - red - Root chakra, Australia - orange - Navel
X   chakra, South America - yellow - Solar plexus chakra, North America -
X   green - Heart chakra, Europe - blue - Throat chakra, Asia - indigo -
X   Third Eye chakra, Antarctica - violet - Crown chakra. Major lakes are,
X   of course, colored navy blue.
X
XC) Mouse buttons: Pressing the mouse buttons in the X windows will now
X   do various functions. The left mouse button acts as a pen that allows
X   one to actually draw on the chart: press it and drag the pointer to
X   draw a line on the window - good for aiding in analysis or in
X   presentations. (Any scribbles one makes will disappear the next time
X   the chart window is updated, therefore drawing will have little effect
X   when in animation mode.) The middle mouse button will only work when
X   the world map is shown, i.e. in the -L astrograph or -XW world map
X   displays: press it and get the approximate longitude and latitude of
X   the place on the map where the pointer is. For the three scale sizes
X   of 100, 200, and 300 percent, the accuracy is to the nearest degree,
X   30', and 20', respectively. So, if you want to cast a chart for
X   southern Madagascar, Africa, but don't know the coordinates, click the
X   middle button on the map for a good approximation! Finally, the right
X   button acts just like the 'q' key, and will terminate the window.
X
XD) '[', ']' keys: Not only can the globe display be rotated, but the
X   poles can be now tilted down at various angles! (This basically makes
X   the -XP polar globe view option obsolete; it's still in there only for
X   backwards compatibility.) Press the '[' and ']' keys when the globe is
X   being displayed to respectively "pull down" and "push back up" the
X   angle of the polar axis from which the globe is viewed.  Combining
X   this with the globe rotation allows one to move any point of the globe
X   to the center of the screen.
X
XE) 'l' key: Press the 'l' key in a window to inhibit the labeling of
X   all planets in the various charts. Instead of drawing the little point
X   and then the glyph near it, just the point is displayed. This mode is
X   mainly useful for the -Z horizon and -S space charts (and has little
X   use for anything else) when in cramped quarters or to get a more
X   realistic view of how the sky actually looks.
X
XF) -XT switch: In addition to the 'T' key which will toggle off or on
X   whether the chart parameters are displayed at the bottom of the
X   window, the new -XT option will do the same thing, giving control of
X   the feature when a formal window isn't actually opened, e.g. when
X   displaying to the root.
X
XG) 'O', 'o' keys: Have you ever animated your natal or some other
X   chart to some far distant future or past time, only then to wish you
X   could somehow easily get back to the original chart? You can now, by
X   pressing the 'O' key in a window, which will recall to the screen
X   previously "saved" chart parameters (which are by default set to
X   whatever you started the window with.) Press the 'o' key to change
X   this default stored chart to be the chart that is presently in the
X   window.
X
XH) 'B' key: Press the 'B' key in an X window to dump whatever is
X   currently being displayed to the background root window. This is
X   basically the corresponding keypress to the old -XB option.
X
XI) 'C', 'u', 'U' keys: Pressing the 'C', 'u', and 'U' keys in the
X   window will toggle the restriction status of the four minor house
X   cusps, the uranian planets, and the fixed stars, respectively. These
X   keys compliment the old 'R' key option already in place, and are the
X   counterparts to the -C, -u, -U, and -RC, -Ru, -RU options.
X
XJ) 's', 'h' keys: Press the 's' key in the window to toggle whether or
X   not the siderial vs. tropical zodiac is used. Press the 'h' key to
X   toggle to a heliocentric based chart or back again to a geocentric
X   one. These of course correspond the the -s and -h options.
X
XK) 'v' key: Press this key to dump back to the text screen the list of
X   where all the planets currently being displayed in the window are.
X   This display is the same as produced with the -v switch, and is useful
X   if one wants text to indicate where everything in the chart is.
X
END_OF_FILE
if test 59999 -ne `wc -c <'History.p2'`; then
    echo shar: \"'History.p2'\" unpacked with wrong size!
fi
# end of 'History.p2'
fi
echo shar: End of archive 11 \(of 12\).
cp /dev/null ark11isdone
MISSING=""
for I in 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 ; do
    if test ! -f ark${I}isdone ; then
	MISSING="${MISSING} ${I}"
    fi
done
if test "${MISSING}" = "" ; then
    echo You have unpacked all 12 archives.
    rm -f ark[1-9]isdone ark[1-9][0-9]isdone
else
    echo You still need to unpack the following archives:
    echo "        " ${MISSING}
fi
##  End of shell archive.
exit 0

exit 0 # Just in case...
