			This is the README file for 


                        X   X  FFFFF  SSSSS  M     M                            
                         X X   F      S      M M M M                          
                          X    FFFFF  SSSSS  M  M  M                           
                         X X   F          S  M     M                           
                        X   X  F      SSSSS  M     M                            

                        X      File   System Monitor   (c) 1993 Robert Gasch


1) Author & Copyright

	xfsm was written by Robert Gasch (rgasch@nl.oracle.com) and is 
	copyright by the author.

2) Distribution Policy

 	Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software for
	any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
	copyright notice appear in all copies as well as supporting 
	documentation. All work developed as a consequence of the use of 
	this program should duly acknowledge such use.

	All commercial uses of xfsm must be done by agreement with the
	author.

3) Guarantees

	xfsm should work all right *but*

	No representations are made about the suitability of this software 
	for any purpose. This software is provided "as is" without express 
	or implied warranty.

4) What is xfsm?

	xfsm stands for X File System Monitor and runs under MIT's X11
	window system on several flavors of UNIX. It is a tool designed 
	to make monitoring your file systems' status easy by displaying 
	a simple bar graph for each file system greater than size 0. It
	updates the file systems' statistics at regular intervals and 
	has a scalable sleep time to allow fine tuning to save CPU
	power.

5) What if you change the program?

	If you extend xfsm's functionality, add support for new UNIX
	flavors, or simply solve bugs, *please*mail* me the changes(!)
	as I'd like to act as the central source for xfsm. This will 
	also enable me to include your changes in a future release. 
	Unless it is generic please enclose it in a meaningful
	#ifdef. If your change affects *many* lines, please provide
	some method of me finding it back (preferrably a #ifdef, 
	alternativeley some comment I can grep for). If I decide
	to incorporate your fix in a future release (seems likely)
	you'll be given credit.

6) Systems currently supported

	SVR4
	SunOS
	AIX
	LINUX
	TOS

7) How do I get started?

	This section assumes that you have all the necessary files! (The 
	file "Manifest" contains a list of distributed files.)

	a) Customize the Imakefile to suit your system setup. 
	If it turns out that your system is not one of the currently
	supported ones, you'll have to add the appropriate definitions.

	b) Make the Makefile by typing 
		xmkmf
	If your system does not support generating makefiles from 
	Imakefiles use "Makefile.std" as a template to build your
	own.

	c) Once you have a valid Makefile build xfsm by tying
		make

	Once you have created the executable, you're ready to go. The
	executable will be created in the directory in which the source
	for xfsm resides.

8) Brief users guide

	You can get a list of supported options by typing
		xfsm -?

	Once you have started xfsm you will get a window containing 
	at least 1 bar graph (xfsm removes all file systems of size 0) 
	and 2 menus. The Menus are:

		Update Now - updates all files systems' statistics now
		Quit       - exits xfsm

	If you click on the graph of a file system with the left or middle
	mouse button you get a window displaying the detailed statistics
	for the file system. Clicking on the file system again, closes 
	the detail window while clicking on another file system while the
	detail window is open, displays this file system's statistics in 
	the detail window.

	The right mouse button is used to toggle the display mode. The
	default startup mode graphs all file system equally big. By 
	clicking with the right mouse button, the graphs are drawn in 
	proportion to the file system's size. Clicking with the right
	mouse button again reverts back to the original mode. 

	The following keys can be used to control xfsm:
		q - close the detail window
		u - update now
		t - toggle display mode

	The Detail Window can display the following statistics. Depending
	on the system you are on, you may not get all these statistics:
		Total Size		The file system size in MB
		Space Free		Free space in MB
		Sapce Available		Space Available to non-root in MB
		Block Size		The size of a block in Bytes
		Blocks			The number of blocks
		Blocks Free		The number of free blocks
		Blocks Available	Blocks available to non-root
		File Inodes		The number of Inodes
		Free Inodes		The number of free Inodes
		Inodes Availible	Inodes available to non-root user

	You can not resize the detail window. You can resize the main
	window but xfsm will now let you make the main window smaller 
	beyond a certain point. This is to ensure that the output 
	remains neat and legible.

8) Command line parameters

	xfsm accepts the following command line options:

 	-r              displays space available to root rather than user
                                not available on TOS
	-b              draw bars black
	-m              minimize window size
	-p              don't display percent
	-a              toggle display mode to absolute bar size
	-f              displays percent free rather than percent in use
	-s <arg>        scale sleep interval by <arg>
	-i <arg>        interval at which display is updated (default = 300s)
	-d <arg1 ... argn> do not include these file systems
	-?              get help

9) Troubleshooting

	If you find a problem which is not listed below there are 2 things
	you can do:
		1) Fix it yourself. If this case please send me a short 
		note explaining the problem and the fix. Note that the
		code for xfsm is actually pretty simple and for the 
		most part well commented so it should not be hard to
		figure out what's going on. If you can, please do it 
		this way as I am busy enough as is is.
		2) Send me a description of the problem. I'll try to
		attend to it as fast as I can, but work comes first so
		this may take a while.

	Problem: Some windows are not updated correctly.
	Solution: This sounds like a known bug. Type "xfsm -?" to see
		the known bugs. Don't send me mail about these. They'll
		be fixed with the next release.

	Problem: Compile fails with "GET_FS" undefined.
	Solution: You didn't provide the compiler with any -D options 
		for a particular machine type. Change your Imakefile 
		accordingly and go back to section 7 (How do I get 
		started?).

	Problem: Compile fails with some member of the stats structure 
		undefined.
	Solution: You have selected inappropriate -D options for your 
		machine.  Change the option (if available) or add the 
		appropriate code. If you really don't know how to do 
		the latter mail me. Depending on my schedule I may 
		decide to help you out.

	Problem: xfsm's reponse time is unacceptably slow.
	Solutions: Check if you're not scaling the sleep time using the
		-s command line option.

	Problem: xfsm starts OK but I don't get the window.
	Solution: Check if your DISPLAY variable is set correctly.

10) I've found a bug. What now?

	Read section 9 (Troubeshooting) to see if it falls under one of
	the problems listed there. If not, reread the first part of
	section 9 (9.1 and 9.2). Then decide on the best way to approch
	your problem.

11) I've come up with a feature which I think would be useful.

	Here again you can do 2 things:
		1) Implement it yourself. If you do this then
		reread section 5 (What if you change the program?)
		to get an idea what I would like you to do with the
		result.
		2) Mail me. I'll consider it and if I agree with you
		will implement it whenever I find time.

12) I'm extatic about this wonderful program. How can I make the author happy?

	If you really feel this way, how about a short mail message
	telling me that you are happy about using xfsm.

13) I hate this worthless program. It ruins my day.

	Don't use it. Don't mail me!

14) Credits

	msleep was taken from Tom Boutell's "Broken Throne".

	Many thanks to Joost Helberg for identifying numerous bugs,
	suggesting the relative display mode and providing the LINUX
	#defines.
