This file describes the new features, changes, and bug fixes in
version 2.20 of Astrolog (over the previous version, 2.10, posted 3.5
months ago). Although this new version is a stand alone program, this
Update file requires knowledge of the features of version 2.10 in
order to make sense. If you aren't familiar with version 2.10, get and
read the version 2.10 Helpfile which describes all its features from
the alt.astrology ftp site at hilbert.maths.utas.edu.au, or from any
comp.sources.misc archive.

Just some of the new things contained in Astrolog 2.20 are: Fixed star
positions, spatial astronomical charts of the solar system, and a
couple of other things non-astrologer astronomers would like. Also
added are new kinds of and more support for relationship charts, and
the nascent beginnings of an interpretation feature, along with other
things non-astronomer astrologers would like. Ability to scan a data
file for program defaults has been added, allowing changes to be made
to the program without recompiling, along with a bunch of funky
additions to the X graphics features.

----

Important: A few changes have been made to the program, i.e. not just
new features but some things that were true for version 2.10 are no
longer valid. A list of these changes follows:

1) First of all, every object (planets, minor house cusps, uranians,
   and stars) has its own "number", displayable in the -O list. No more
   ugly hacks of overwriting some planets with the uranian positions in
   the -u option. There is virtually no difference between a planet and a
   house cusp. The default is still the first 20 objects to keep the
   charts looking the same as before, although one can have a chart with
   all 78 objects (one for each tarot card ;) if they like. For example,
   the -u uranian switch will now display the uranian locations after
   everything else in the standard chart display. You get what you ask
   for, and what you don't want must be explicitly -R restricted.

2) As a result of the above, the minor house cusps (11th, 12th, 2nd,
   3rd) are no longer included in the -T transit list by default. If you
   want them, you must explicitly specify you want them (with the -C cusp
   option described later). Also, the relationship chart aspect grid now
   includes the vertex (before it only included the first 19 objects) and
   as a result the display will unfortunately exceed 80 columns, unless
   you explicitly restrict one of them with the -R option.

3) The program now makes a distinction between synastry charts, and
   the actual comparison between two charts. Before the -r option would
   combine the two charts in synastry, unless it was the -g option, in
   which case the contents of both charts would be compared in an aspect
   grid. Now -r is only for synastry, and combinations such as "-r chart1
   chart2 -g" or "-r chart1 chart2 -g -X" will display the aspects within
   the synastry chart itself. To actually have two charts side by side,
   use the -r0 option described later, instead of -r.

4) To display the ley lines in the -XW world map window, or to see the
   southern hemisphere in the -XP polar chart, one had to enter animation
   mode before, a hack which of course had nothing to do with animation.
   This "bonus information" is now in a separate feature, accessed with
   the -Xi switch described later.

5) In an X window, pressing the 'S' key would resize the window to be
   a square, and the 'C' key would revert the mode back to the standard
   wheel chart. These two keys presently do other operations described
   later, and the above functions are now accessed by the 'Q' and 'V'
   keys respectively.

6) The chart information at the bottom of the window is now included
   by default, while before it wasn't. To remove it, press the 'T' key in
   the window or use the -XT switch described later.

7) The -w and -w0 switches both display the same text wheel chart, but
   in slightly different ways. They have been reversed in function, since
   the -w0 chart looked better.

8) The "default" chart, i.e. the initial values in the chart
   parameters that are used if one forces a chart to be used when one is
   not expected, e.g. combining the -XW and -o switches, has been
   changed. Before, I had put in the data for the 11:11pm GMT New Moon on
   1-4-1992, but now I have changed it to the chart for this version of
   Astrolog itself: 5-31-1992 9pm PDT Seattle, WA.

9) Finally, concerning the source code itself, there are two new
   files: options.c has been split into the new file charts.c, and
   graphics.c has been split into the new file xcharts.c.

----

Now, a comprehensive list of the features and extensions added to this
version of Astrolog follows:

A) -S switch: A new chart type is available - solar system space
   charts, which give the astronomical positions of each planet in terms
   of x, y, and z coordinates. Although not directly useful
   astrologically, it does give one a good view of how the planets
   actually were positioned at the time in question. For example, normal
   astrology doesn't make the distinction between the four different
   "forms" of say, a Mercury Venus Conjunction, i.e. they can either be
   Conjunct on the near side of the Sun, Conjunct on the far side of the
   Sun, or one can be on one side and the other on the other side. When
   the chart is actually displayed, for each body the following
   information is printed: The relative angle of the planet with respect
   to the central body, i.e. its zodiac position converted to the
   appropriate number from 0..360. This is followed by the x, y, and z
   coordinate positions of the object, in astronomical units from the
   central body. The x-axis increases in the direction of 0 degrees Aries
   (tropical zodiac), the y-axis increases in the direction of 0 degrees
   Cancer, and the z-axis is with respect to the Earth's orbit (meaning
   that the Sun and Earth always have a z-axis value of 0.0). Finally the
   overall length from the central body in AU is printed, which is just
   the diagonal as indicated by the x, y, z vectors. (The Earth and Sun
   are of course always about 1.0 AU from each other.) The Moon circles
   the Earth and isn't a part of the solar system proper; therefore, it
   is never in these charts. The -e everything option will include this
   chart in it's listing of all the chart displays.

   The -S switch can be combined with -X to give an X window chart of the
   solar system. This will be displayed as an aerial view of the entire
   solar system, with 0 degrees Aries to the left of the screen, and 0
   degrees Cancer to the bottom. Note that this chart includes all
   possible planets, including the Earth (whose glyph is a cross inside a
   circle). Whatever object is chosen to be the central body is at the
   center of the screen, with all the others around it. This is a fun
   chart to animate - watch the planets go around the Sun, and *see* how
   they turn retrograde with respect to the Earth. In addition to the
   bodies themselves, twelve spokes are drawn from the center body to the
   edge of the screen, which delineate the zodiac with respect to it.
   Note that the scale of the solar system is large; attempting to fit
   all the planets out to Pluto on the screen at once will cause all the
   inner planets to be crammed together near the middle of the screen. To
   deal with this, the scale size as indicated with the -Xs switch and
   the '<' and '>' keys will affect how much of the solar system is
   viewed at once (in addition to the glyph sizes). For a scale size of
   300, the viewport will have a radius of 6 AU (about out to the orbit
   of Jupiter; useful for viewing the inner planets). For a scale size of
   200 (default), it will have a radius of 30 AU (enough to include
   Neptune, and Pluto most of the time). Finally, a scale size of 100
   will result in a radius of 90 AU, enough to easily include the entire
   solar system, as well as the orbits of the alleged Uranian bodies
   beyond Pluto.

B) -I switch: Another new chart type is available - interpretation of
   influences. This is the beginning of a general interpretation ability
   for the program, although all it does now is calculate the relative
   "power" of each planet's placement, giving a general idea of the
   prominent areas of a chart. When such a chart is printed, each planet
   is given a point value, larger numbers indicating more strength. Each
   planet's strength is divided between two fields: the positioning in
   and of itself, and the power of the aspects it makes with the other
   planets. In addition to each field, the total of these two areas is
   printed, as well as the relative percentage of the planet in question
   with respect to all the planets combined. Each planet gets a ranking
   for its positioning, aspects, and total power as well, with the
   strongest getting #1, the next strongest #2, etc. The -e option will
   include this chart as well in it's listing of all the chart displays.

   To determine the strength of the positioning of a planet, various
   things are taken into account: 1) The power of a planet in and of
   itself, e.g. the Sun and Moon are more powerful then the other
   planets. 2) The house placement of a planet, e.g. a planet in the 1st
   house is more powerful than one in the 2nd. 3) Whether a planet is in
   the sign it rules or is exalted in, e.g. Jupiter in Sag results in
   more power to Jupiter. 4) Whether a planet is in the house
   corresponding to the sign it rules or is exalted in, e.g. Jupiter in
   the 9th house. 5) Planets get more power if the signs they rule are
   occupied, e.g. a bunch of stuff in Aquarius gives more power to
   Uranus. 6) Planets get more power if the houses they rule are
   occupied, e.g. a bunch of stuff in the 11th house gives power to
   Uranus. 7) Finally, planets get power according to what houses the
   cusps of which fall in the signs they rule, i.e. the ruler of the
   Ascendant (and to less extent the Midheaven, and so on) gets lots of
   influence. Determining the strength of a planet's aspects is much
   easier, and is basically composed of the sum of the strength of each
   aspect the planet makes. Taken into account are: 1) The inherent
   influence of the planet being aspected to, e.g. Sun conjunct Jupiter
   gives more influence to Jupiter than Mercury conjunct Jupiter would.
   2) The influence of the aspect itself, e.g. Oppositions are more
   powerful then Sextiles. 3) Finally the orb of the aspect, i.e. exact
   aspects are more powerful than wide ones. (The influence of the orb
   varies linearly from max power at exact to zero power at the limit of
   the orb - sorry Maggie M. and Mark K. - no complex aspect wave
   functions, at least for this version :)

   Special thanks goes to Mark K. who initially presented this idea of
   interpreting overall influences to me. I basically just took his
   ideas, polished them a bit, and put it into the code. Interestingly,
   while programming this feature, I had a dream about him, in which he
   elaborated upon some of the ideas and even gave me suggestions for
   some of the planets' default power values (astral visitation?) And,
   while on the subject, I've had a couple of other Astrolog dreams; I
   had one neat one while working on the -h extension (described later)
   about a far distant future version of Astrolog that could actually
   teleport one to the places which they cast charts for :)

C) -v switch: This isn't really a new feature, but rather a formal
   specification for the standard chart listing of the planetary
   positions. Before, one would get this chart by default if they didn't
   specify any other chart types, and they would get it along with
   everything else in the -e option, but there was never any formal
   switch for it. In other words, before there was no way to, for
   example, display the standard chart, followed by an aspect grid, since
   there was no switch to choose the standard chart. Now, one can specify
   "-v -g" and get the above mentioned combination.

D) -v addition: The standard chart listing of the planetary positions
   has been expanded to include an extra field for the "velocity" of each
   planet. This velocity value approximates how fast the planet is moving
   through the zodiac with respect to the Earth (or whatever the central
   body is set to) in degrees per day. This value of course, goes
   negative when a planet goes retrograde. This is useful not only to get
   a feel for how fast each planet moves through the zodiac, but to
   determine when a planet is about to go retrograde or direct - the
   value approaches zero when the planet changes direction.

E) -v0 switch: This switch is just like -v except that it modifies the
   planet velocities slightly. Normally, it isn't a trivial task to
   determine precisely when a planet is going to change direction. This
   is because, for example, although a velocity of 0.010 degrees/day for
   fast moving Mercury means it's about to turn retrograde, the same
   velocity value is normal for slow moving Pluto. The -v0 switch divides
   the normal velocity values by how fast each planet moves with respect
   to the Sun, meaning that all planets will now have an average
   *relative* velocity value of 1.000, and in all cases, a velocity of
   2.000 means the planet is moving twice as fast as normal, and one of
   0.010 means the planet is about to turn retrograde.

F) -d addition: The -d aspect search routine has been expanded to
   calculate and display the times when a planet changes direction.
   Before, in such a listing, it would be shown whenever a planet changed
   direction during a day, but the exact time of the station wouldn't be
   printed for it.

G) -U switch: Astrolog 2.20 has the ability to display the positions
   of 46 of the brightest and most important stars in the sky. To include
   these stars in a chart, use the -U "universe" option. The 43 brightest
   stars, i.e. all those with apparent magnitude values < 2.0 are
   included, in addition to three dimmer stars which are considered
   significant, i.e.: Polaris the North star, the Pleiades star cluster
   (home of our extraterrestrial cousins), and Zeta Reticuli (home of the
   Grey aliens.) One bright star is called "Orion", which is formally
   Alnilam, the middle star of Orion's belt. Since stars are fixed in
   the sky, they will never change position in the -s siderial zodiac,
   although they will slowly precess forward in the normal tropical
   zodiac. The -R restriction option can be used to determine which stars
   are actually included, although the -U option needs to be included to
   get any stars at all. In X windows, the stars are denoted by three
   letter abbreviations (as are the uranians and minor house cusps), and
   are colored according to their brightness: yellow for stars brighter
   than (less than) magnitude 0.0, gold for dimmer ones from 0.0 to 1.0,
   orange for those from 1.0 to 2.0, and finally the dimmest special
   stars with a magnitude greater than 2.0 are red.

   In the -v standard chart, -Z horizon chart, and in the -O object list,
   where all the stars are printed sequentially, it can sometimes be
   confusing to locate the star you want among 42 others. The -U option
   can be modified to sort the stars in various ways. If one uses -Ub
   instead of just -U, the stars will be listed in order from brightest
   to dimmest. Doing -Un instead of -U will alphabetize the stars by
   name. -Ul will sort them by their altitude from highest in the sky to
   lowest, while -Uz will sort them by their zodiac position. Note that
   any star ordering will have no visible effect in X windows, and one
   must still use the default ordering when passing numbers to the -R
   option to restrict various stars.

H) -C switch: This new option must be indicated to include the four
   minor house cusps (i.e. 11th, 12th, 2nd, 3rd) in the various chart
   options, such as the -g aspect grids, -T transit searches, the X wheel
   chart, etc. This option of course won't have any effect on certain
   charts where only physical bodies are shown (e.g. -Z, -S, -L) or where
   all house cusps are already indicated in the chart (e.g. -v, -w).

I) -O0 switch: The old -O switch simply displays a list of all the
   objects, cusps, uranians, and stars, along with their index numbers.
   This list can be affected by the -R restrictions, and the -C, -u, and
   -U switches must be included in order for all of Astrolog's objects to
   get listed. In order to make it easier to simply display a list of all
   78 objects Astrolog recognizes, the new -O0 option is just like -O
   (and is equivalent to "-C -u -U -O") except that it will ignore all
   restrictions and always list every object. Stars are printed in the
   list along with their azimuth, altitude, and brightness values.
   (Remember that when -O is encountered, it immediately executes and
   terminates the program, so any modifying switches must be before it.)

J) -RC, -Ru, -RU switches: These three switches are similar to the -R0
   option in that they initially restrict objects, i.e. all the minor
   cusps, Uranians, and stars, respectively from appearing. For example,
   if you want to include only the star Sirius in an X window chart
   without having to also include all the other stars (or having to enter
   a very long restriction list), do: "astrolog -U -RU 48 -X", which will
   include the stars, and then restrict them all except Sirius, before
   making the chart.

K) -h <arg> expansion: The -h switch which allowed heliocentric charts
   to be computed has been expanded to allow charts to be cast with any
   planet as the center. The option takes a parameter to indicate which
   object to center the chart on, e.g. do -h 5 to cast a Mars centered
   chart. (Moon centered charts are not allowed.) As before, -h by itself
   means to do a heliocentric chart.

L) -rm <file1> <file2> switch: Time-space midpoint relationship charts
   are now supported. Doing "-rm chart1 chart2" will calculate the time
   and location exactly half way between the times and locations as
   indicated in the two files. Unlike all other types of relationship
   charts, this one actually exists in space and time, and therefore can
   be treated like a single chart and can be output with the -o option.

M) -r0 <file1> <file2> switch: A distinction has now been made between
   synastry relationship charts and the actual comparison between two
   separate charts. The -r0 option must be used to generate these
   comparison charts, e.g. the aspect grid between the planets of two
   charts (and the new X chart described later). The -r0 option will act
   like the -r synastry option in certain displays that can't compare two
   charts; for example, "-r chart1 chart2 -g" and "-r0 chart1 chart2 -g"
   are different, because one generates the aspect grid within a synastry
   chart, and the other an aspect grid between all the planets in the two
   charts, but "-r chart1 chart2 -v" and "-r0 chart1 chart2 -v" will do
   the same thing. (Note: the "-t file" current transit option is
   basically a shorthand way of doing "-r0 file now".)

N) -G switch: This switch generates a special type of locational
   analysis chart, called a geodetic chart, in which the house cusps are
   computed from a different source, i.e. as a function of only the
   longitude and latitude. This basically gives every spot on the planet
   a different unique set of house cusps, and can be used to analyze the
   characteristics of different areas, and their influence on you if you
   insert your own planets in the houses. This type of chart was
   described in the January 1992 issue of Dell Horoscope magazine, from
   which I learned how to generate these charts. Basically, the Midheaven
   is approximately the longitude value converted from degrees into the
   appropriate zodiac sign; for example 0 degrees E goes to 0 degrees
   Aries, 30 degrees E goes to 0 degrees Taurus, etc.

O) -L <arg> addition: For text screens, one can pass an optional
   parameter to the -L or -L0 astro-graph option to give the latitude
   step rate at which the Ascendant and Descendant lines are computed.
   This value is by default 5 degrees, although one can may increase or
   decrease it to any integer (subject to the restriction that the number
   160 is divisible by it.)

P) -g0 addition: A new planetary configuration has been added to this
   option. In addition to flagging the Grand Trines, T-Squares, and so
   on, any chart Stellium's are located. In a Stellium, three objects
   must all be conjunct with each other.

Q) -ga switch: Ability to determine whether an aspect is applying or
   separating (is about to happen or just happened) has been added to the
   -g option. Normally the aspect orbs are flagged as being + or - based
   on whether they are greater or less than the proper amount (e.g. a 91
   degree Square has a +1 degree orb while a 89 degree one a -1 orb.) If
   one, however, invokes the -g option as -ga instead, a negative orb
   will indicate an applying aspect while a positive orb a separating
   one. (To estimate applying vs. separating, the program examines the
   planetary positions and their velocities at the time in question.)

R) -g0 expansion: For relationship aspect grids, the -g0 option will
   display a midpoint grid instead of an aspect grid between the planets
   in the two charts e.g. "-r0 chart1 chart2 -g0". Before, the -g0 switch
   with comparison charts wouldn't behave any different from just -g.

S) -s0 switch: For astronomers out there, the new -s0 option will
   print all planetary positions in the right ascension hours/minutes
   format instead of the sign/degrees/minutes astrologers are accustomed
   to. This will affect how the objects are listed in the -v display, and
   how the star azimuths are displayed in the -O list. For example, 0
   degrees Aries is represented as 0 hr, 0 min; 0 Cancer goes to 6 hr, 0
   min, and so on through the 24 hour clock.

T) -p0 <arg> switch: User definable progression rates can be specified
   with this new option. When using the -p progression option, Astrolog
   assumes you want the standard "year for a day" rate of secondary
   progressions. By passing different values to the -p0 switch, one can
   change the default "365.25 days for a day" to any value they want for
   some less often used method of progression. For example, one can do
   "-p0 7 -pn" to do a week for a day, "-p0 -365.25 -pn" to get negative
   year for day progressions, and so on. (Note that "-p0 1" would be the
   same as if no progression were done at all.)

U) -z expansion: Normally the -z option takes an argument which will
   then become the default time zone. If one, however, invokes it by
   itself, it will subtract one hour from whatever the default time zone
   presently is. This is useful since it is equivalent to adjusting any
   times printed to Daylight time, i.e. it will add one hour to any times
   displayed. (When entering the birth time for charts, one is supposed
   to subtract one hour if Daylight time was in effect; note that
   subtracting one hour from the time zone will do the same thing.) For
   example, over here on the West Coast, I have my default time zone
   compiled to be "8"; now that Daylight time is in effect here, I can do
   -z 7 or just -z to decrease the default time zone when I make a -T
   transit list, which will in effect add one hour to the local times
   displayed, or in effect "Spring ahead" the clock for me. (For a better
   way of adjusting Astrolog for Daylight time without having to specify
   -z all the time, recompile the program, or add one hour to the times
   in your head, use the "defaults" file described later to change the
   time zone.) Remember that the -z (and -l) switches must be before any
   other switches they modify (such as -n) in order for the new default
   to take effect.

V) -- <arg> switch: This new "dash minus" option is just like the old
   "dash plus" (-+) option that's already in place, except it subtracts
   instead of adds the specified number of days from any chart cast. This
   is only for convenience, in that "-- 1" is the same as "-+ -1".

W) -w expansion: Chart header information has been added to the -w
   text wheel chart option. Before, the space in the middle of the chart
   was left blank, but now displayed in it is the same header info as is
   at the top of the standard -v chart.

X) There are now wider orbs allowed for the Sun and Moon in the aspect
   grids. Normally, only the aspect in question determines the allowed
   orb, but the Sun and Moon will now each add 1 degree to whatever the
   orb would have been. (This excludes minor objects such as the North
   Node, Part of Fortune, Vertex, and all the stars, for which the orbs
   are not allowed to ever exceed two degrees.)

Y) When specifying command switches, the leading dashes are optional,
   and aren't necessary any more. For example, the command "astrolog -i
   chartfile -R -u -U -Z -Xs 300 -Xi -XB" can be abbreviated as "astrolog
   i chartfile R u U Z Xs 300 Xi XB". (This is subject to a couple of
   minor limitations, in that one can't have the -1 or -3 option follow a
   -R restriction list of numbers, for obvious reasons.)

----

Astrolog 2.20 includes the ability to search an input file for various
default parameters to use in the program. This allows one to easily
change major defaults without having to recompile the program, which
is useful if, say, one receives a compiled executable from a friend
who had a different configuration. The program looks for the file
"astrolog.dat" in the current directory, and if not there, looks for
it in the default directory. Parameters in this file will override any
defaults compiled into the program, although the highest priority is
still given to the command line options. Note one doesn't *have* to
have this file in order to run the program - if not found Astrolog
will still run as before. Presently, the parameters one can change in
this file are: default time zone (as indicated with -z option),
default longitude and latitude (as in -l option), number of aspects
(-A option), default house system to use (values as in -c option).
Then come default restriction values (as with -R option) for the first
20 objects (0 = active, 1 = restricted). Next are the orbs (as with
-Ao option) for the 18 aspects. Finally, comes a long list of the
influence values used by the -I option, i.e. the power values of each
of the first 20 planet objects, of the 12 houses, and of the 18
aspects. The only major thing that one *can't* change in the file is
the default directory path in which the program looks in for input
files if not in the current directory, since Astrolog needs the
default directory in order to be able to locate the file in the first
place! The "astrolog.dat" file included with this version of the
program has some "comment lines" describing what is contained in each
line. One can chance or delete comments as long as they make sure that
an equals sign ('=') immediately proceeds any value or list of values,
since the program uses this character to determine where comments end.

----

Additional new features and extensions follow below; however, these
only affect the graphics portions of the program, and therefore only
come into play if the X11 compile time option is set.

A) True relationship wheel charts can now be displayed in a window,
   i.e. where the planets of both charts are displayed in separate rings
   of the same wheel. Use the -r0 option to display this comparison type.
   For example, for the command "astrolog -r0 person1 person2 -X", the
   following is displayed: The signs and houses as in person1's chart are
   drawn in the outermost part of the wheel. Inside this is a ring of
   person2's planets as displayed in person1's houses, and inside of this
   are person1's own planets. Finally at the very middle is an aspect
   grid, which shows those aspects that are occurring between the objects
   in the two charts. Basically this is just the standard wheel chart for
   person1, except that person2's planets are in an outer ring of objects
   and the aspect grid shows the aspects of the relationship. Putting
   such a chart in animation mode only affects person2's planets, so this
   is a great way to analyze transits: Doing "astrolog -t yourchartfile
   -X" will show all your current transits, and allow you to easily
   animate the transiting planets through your natal signs and houses.

B) More color: For color X terminals, the -XG globe display and -XW
   world map display are now done with the continents in different
   colors! This makes them look much better than before. Each of the
   seven continents is in a different color of the rainbow, and the
   colors are chosen to correspond to the appropriate chakra (etheric
   energy vortex along the human spine) that goes with each land mass.
   They are: Africa - red - Root chakra, Australia - orange - Navel
   chakra, South America - yellow - Solar plexus chakra, North America -
   green - Heart chakra, Europe - blue - Throat chakra, Asia - indigo -
   Third Eye chakra, Antarctica - violet - Crown chakra. Major lakes are,
   of course, colored navy blue.

C) Mouse buttons: Pressing the mouse buttons in the X windows will now
   do various functions. The left mouse button acts as a pen that allows
   one to actually draw on the chart: press it and drag the pointer to
   draw a line on the window - good for aiding in analysis or in
   presentations. (Any scribbles one makes will disappear the next time
   the chart window is updated, therefore drawing will have little effect
   when in animation mode.) The middle mouse button will only work when
   the world map is shown, i.e. in the -L astrograph or -XW world map
   displays: press it and get the approximate longitude and latitude of
   the place on the map where the pointer is. For the three scale sizes
   of 100, 200, and 300 percent, the accuracy is to the nearest degree,
   30', and 20', respectively. So, if you want to cast a chart for
   southern Madagascar, Africa, but don't know the coordinates, click the
   middle button on the map for a good approximation! Finally, the right
   button acts just like the 'q' key, and will terminate the window.

D) '[', ']' keys: Not only can the globe display be rotated, but the
   poles can be now tilted down at various angles! (This basically makes
   the -XP polar globe view option obsolete; it's still in there only for
   backwards compatibility.) Press the '[' and ']' keys when the globe is
   being displayed to respectively "pull down" and "push back up" the
   angle of the polar axis from which the globe is viewed.  Combining
   this with the globe rotation allows one to move any point of the globe
   to the center of the screen.

E) 'l' key: Press the 'l' key in a window to inhibit the labeling of
   all planets in the various charts. Instead of drawing the little point
   and then the glyph near it, just the point is displayed. This mode is
   mainly useful for the -Z horizon and -S space charts (and has little
   use for anything else) when in cramped quarters or to get a more
   realistic view of how the sky actually looks.

F) -XT switch: In addition to the 'T' key which will toggle off or on
   whether the chart parameters are displayed at the bottom of the
   window, the new -XT option will do the same thing, giving control of
   the feature when a formal window isn't actually opened, e.g. when
   displaying to the root.

G) 'O', 'o' keys: Have you ever animated your natal or some other
   chart to some far distant future or past time, only then to wish you
   could somehow easily get back to the original chart? You can now, by
   pressing the 'O' key in a window, which will recall to the screen
   previously "saved" chart parameters (which are by default set to
   whatever you started the window with.) Press the 'o' key to change
   this default stored chart to be the chart that is presently in the
   window.

H) 'B' key: Press the 'B' key in an X window to dump whatever is
   currently being displayed to the background root window. This is
   basically the corresponding keypress to the old -XB option.

I) 'C', 'u', 'U' keys: Pressing the 'C', 'u', and 'U' keys in the
   window will toggle the restriction status of the four minor house
   cusps, the uranian planets, and the fixed stars, respectively. These
   keys compliment the old 'R' key option already in place, and are the
   counterparts to the -C, -u, -U, and -RC, -Ru, -RU options.

J) 's', 'h' keys: Press the 's' key in the window to toggle whether or
   not the siderial vs. tropical zodiac is used. Press the 'h' key to
   toggle to a heliocentric based chart or back again to a geocentric
   one. These of course correspond the the -s and -h options.

K) 'v' key: Press this key to dump back to the text screen the list of
   where all the planets currently being displayed in the window are.
   This display is the same as produced with the -v switch, and is useful
   if one wants text to indicate where everything in the chart is.

L) -Xi switch, 'i' key: Certain people have asked that some of the X
   charts be modified in various minor ways, i.e. in either adding or
   removing certain information. Rather than add a new hard to remember
   minor option for each change, I have added one major new switch which
   covers all the charts. The new -Xi switch will invoke this
   "induce/inhibit information" option, and pressing the 'i' key in a
   window will accomplish the same thing by toggling the mode's status.
   By default, all the charts are as before, but when this bonus option
   is set, it affects each X window chart in a different way, as follows:

 o For the standard -v and relationship -r0 -v wheel charts, it will
   inhibit the display of the aspect grid in the center - useful for
   speed or when doing large time lapse animations when it would get in
   the way.

 o For the -g aspect grid, it will flip the aspects and midpoints across
   the center diagonal, i.e. the midpoints will be below it and the
   aspects above it, instead of the other way around. For the -r0 -g
   relationship aspect grid, the entire grid will be replaced with one
   showing all midpoints between all the objects in the two charts.

 o For the -Z horizon chart and -S space chart, it will, for the major
   planets, increase the size of the "points" showing where each object
   actually is, making a brighter "spot", for easier viewing; combine
   this in the horizon chart with the 'l' key label inhibitor and get a
   very realistic view of the night sky, with planets brighter and all.

 o For the -L astro-graph chart, this will eliminate the display of the
   Ascendant, Descendant, and Nadir lines, leaving just the vertical
   Midheaven lines and zenith points, for a remarkable increase in speed
   and much less clutter when including many objects.

 o For the -XW world map display, this will show the Earth's ley line
   locations; and for the -XP polar globe view, it will show the southern
   hemisphere instead of the northern.

 o For the -XG globe display, it will display the zenith locations of all
   planets (and stars if -U in effect) on the globe, i.e. where on the
   Earth each object could be viewed by looking straight up. This on the
   globe display is almost identical to the astro-graph chart without its
   various lines, except of course that the projection of the world map
   is different. It's also similar to the -Z horizon display, except that
   it's free from the distortion of projecting the celestial sphere upon
   a plane, so it has use to star gazers. However, animation mode here
   will still only affect what part of the Earth is viewable, and won't
   update the chart from which the zenith locations were obtained.

----

Here is a list of bug fixes over version 2.10:

1) There was a major glitch in the uranian overwrite routine which
   would not only display the uranian positions a degree or two off from
   where they should be, but would also garble the positions of all the
   other objects, too! Since the uranians are now displayed separately,
   this is no longer a problem.

2) The display of midpoints was always 0.5 degree ahead of where they
   should be. For example, the midpoint of planets at 0Gem and 0Can would
   have been 15Gem30 instead of 15Gem0. Believe it or not, this bug has
   been in Astrolog since version 1.1, and I'm glad to say that it's
   *not* in version 2.2!

3) If one switched X window modes from a wheel chart to the
   relationship aspect grid, extra junk would be displayed in some cells.
   The aspect grid routine has been fixed now to make sure that those
   cells that don't have aspects in them stay blank.

4) Attempting to display a chart with no time or space (i.e. a chart
   generated with the -o0 option) in an X window would dump core if the
   chart information was also to be printed at the bottom of the window.
   Now, these charts are no longer a problem, and as with the standard
   listing, these charts are flagged as existing outside the space time
   continuum.

5) The -Z local horizon chart when displayed in an X window would fail
   to recognize the -R restrictions before, and they properly do now.

6) Certain VMS X window systems didn't like the procedure I named
   "box" in the graphics portion (was already defined). This has been
   renamed to eliminate the problem.

7) When downloading the Astrolog source code, certain systems didn't
   correctly transfer lines that began with a decimal point (e.g. the
   numbers in the planetary data area). These have been prefixed with 0's
   to fix the problem.

8) Even when compiling for non X window systems, the previous version
   would still compile in the graphics draw tables and world map data.
   Although this wouldn't affect the running any, it would needlessly
   make the executable larger. Now, trust that the only data compiled
   into the program will be what the user wants as expressed in the
   compile time options.

9) The X window response time was very slow if the world map was ever
   displayed in the lowest scale size, due to continuous error processing
   since the vertical axis of these maps were smaller than the
   established minimum window size. The minimum window size allowed has
   been adjusted to accomodate all scale sizes. Also, on a related note,
   Astrolog windows behave better when one resizes them: instead of
   immediately resizing the window to within bounds if one makes the
   window too big or small, it now won't allow windows to be stretched
   beyond the established limits.

0) Finally a warning for PC users: You will probably want to change
   the value of DIVISIONS in astrolog.h from its current value of 24 to a
   lower value like 6 or so. Leaving it as is invoked complaints of
   extreme slowness and occasional multiple hits in the -d aspect search
   routine, where the same aspect would get listed more than once. Also
   for PC users, I eliminated the problem of the 16 bit PC ints not
   having enough precision to compare with the 32 bit Unix ints, in that
   everything is done using longs now.

-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-
|    Walter D. "Cruiser1" Pullen    |    cruiser1@milton.u.washington.edu.    |
-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-
