		Public Domain Korn Shell
		      Version 4.1

PD KSH:

This is the latest version of the PD ksh (pdksh).  It is not
intended to be the ultimate shell but rather a usable ksh work
alike.  For those of us who have to work on multiple systems it
is nice to have the same user interface on all.  Pdksh is not
100% compatible with the ksh.  Having said that, I use it daily
beside a real ksh88 and find them virtually indistinguishable.

I only run this shell on sun's and only for interactive use.  I
use it on sun4c, sun3 and sun386 systems.  The makefiles are
probably set up for a sun386 :-).  

I am releasing this version of the shell (with the kind
permission of the previous maintainers and major contributors) to
ensure that it is available from usenet archive sites.  Of
course it remains in the Public Domain.  Equally obviously
neither myself nor any other contributors make any claims of
suitability etc.  Ie. NO WARRANTY!!!  

HISTORY:

This shell was written by Eric Gisin.  It is based on Charles
Forsyth's public domain V7 shell, which he later contributed to
Minix.  John R MacMillan picked up Eric Gisin's version after
Eric moved on to other projects (see ReadMe.jrm).

Since then there have been many contributors to this shell.
Most have left their fingerprints within the source and various
ReadMe.xxx and Changes.xxx files reflect their input.

This version is basically that known as Eric Gisin's version 3.3
alpha which I obtained indirectly from John R MacMillan who is
the most recent maintainer.  This version has much improved
emacs-mode command line editing (my main contribution) plus
enough extra emacs-mode features to make it difficult to
distinguish from ksh88.  Bug fixes from various contributors are
the only other changes from John MacMillan's version.

I have upped the version number for this release to distinguish
it from the original 3.3 version.  This version is much improved
despite the small number of new features.

INSTALLATION:

ReadMe.jrm is John R MacMillan's README file and contains
information about the current source arrangement.  Please read it.

Eric Gisin's original ReadMe file can be found in ./sh,  it is
somewhat out of date but retained for history's sake :-)  Use
the instructions in ReadMe.jrm.

The original instructions indicated that a POSIX compliant
environment and possibly an ANSI compiler are required.  I have
used both gcc and native Sun compilers without problems.
Actually I use gcc on the sun386 and cc on the others.
I do know that a friend's SysVr2 NS3210 system required some
serious modifications to get the shell running.  If he ever
sends me the diffs I'll fix the source :-)

ENVIRONMENT:

My main interest in this shell is for Sun workstations.  Every
other UNIX system I use comes with a real ksh.  Being a strictly
C-shell environment, some improved profile files are in order on
Sun's.

The etc directory contains a set of useful environment files.
These are the same files I use on several systems (many use a
real ksh):
./etc/profile
./etc/sys_config.sh
./etc/ksh.kshrc	

The first one is obvious.  The second, sys_config.sh is sourced
by /etc/profile and several other scripts.  It is used to
determine the system type so that scripts like profile can be
used on multiple platforms.
The third one is also quite useful, add 
. /etc/ksh.kshrc 
to user's ~/.kshrc to simplify alias management.

BUGS:

Many folk have contributed to this shell.  There are surely
still plenty of bugs to be found/fixed.

Feel free to e-mail fixes to pdksh-bug@zen.void.oz.au
Please use context diffs (ie diff -c, get gnudiff if your
system's diff doesn't support -c).
I will, if need be, release patches following the C-news style.

I hope you find this shell as useful as I do...

Simon J. Gerraty <sjg@zen.void.oz.au>
