For the time being, gnu-objc is supposed to be a mailing list for
active developers.  There is no newsgroup for gnu-objc yet because it
is feared that it will be full of frivilous discussion.  This does not
mean there will never be a newsgroup.  The consensus last fall at FSF
was that it would not help code get written to have a newsgroup.  In
fact it was felt that my time was being spent unproductively
maintaining a "fun" discussion list at gnu-objc, rather than an active
development list.

So I am thankful that in recent weeks Kresten Krab Thorup has taken
the bull by the horns by doing real development.  Others are beginning
to contribute real code as well.

Geoffrey, 3/1/93
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date:    Fri, 18 Sep 92 09:23 EDT
From: <MKK2@PSUVM.PSU.EDU>
Subject: Re: administrative reminder
To: gsk@marble.com

What's the chance of moving this list into the gnu.* news hierarchy?  I
can see three advantages.

1.  Visibility.  Other folks will see that work is going on on ObjC, which
will lend credibility to the language.

2.  New people will have an easier time coming up to speed, since news stays
around longer than email (well, sort of..)

3.  It is easier to create subdiscussions like gnu.objc.map and gnu.obj.runtime
and so on.

I guess I have a private reason too.  My email software sucks, while my
news software is pretty good.  (I really should investigate using another
machine, but this one is free 8-)  Is there perhaps a gnu machine I can access
by PC Pursuit, or something?)

Lee

Date:    Sat, 26 Sep 92 09:26 EDT
From: <MKK2@PSUVM.PSU.EDU>
Subject: Re: (waiting) project mailing lists, user accounts
To: gsk@marble.com

Here's my problem wrt mailing lists.  (1) This account belongs to my wife
who teaches at Penn State.  I'm not even supposed to be here.  Also, this
is an IBM mainframe, so I don't know if it can handle mailing lists, even
if I could get permission to set one up, which I cannot. 8-(

(2)  I have a NeXT, but it isn't attached to anything.  I could use it for
mail and get news running on it *if* I had a feed.  I am willing to pay
the phone bills of course, but I can't afford UUNET or some similar service.

(3)  The reason I have time for this project is that I am currently
serverely underemployed.  I look for consulting/contract/permanent work,
I workd on a few pet projects, I am Mr. Mom, and I do this.  But that
is also the reason that I cannot afford a commercial uucp/internet
service right now.

(4) wrt a feed.  I have looked for five years for one in my area code, to
no avail.  Just yesterday, I decidedd to look again nationally.  I
ought to be able to find one.  I do have an account on PORTAL, but it
turns out to be a dead end.

(5)  Even if I get a feed, etc.  I'll no doubt need help getting news
and mailing lists running.  I've done some uucp configuration, but never
messed with sendmail.cfg, etc.  (Hey, at least I've heard of them 8-)
I am my own system adminstrator, of course.

So, too make a long story short, setting up a mailing list is a big
hassle for me.

              lee, got any subcontract work?, sailer

