This file contains suggestions for improvements that I don't currently have the
time or inclination to add. If you succeed in doing it, I will add your
changes to the next release.

-Torsten

----------------
Suggested by jspath@mail.bcpl.lib.md.us (Webmaster Jim):

The resize function now works.  So, how about two functions, one
to add space, and one to expand the image?  The pixmap program has
a "resize" function and a "rescale" function.

----------------
Suggested by Sherman Mui <moooster@uclink4.berkeley.edu>

I'm not sure how difficult this change would be but the paint tool's behavior
is slightly annoying. It would be nice if it behaved more like the pencil in
that the brush strokes make connected lines instead of splotches if you move
the mouse too fast.
----------------
Suggested by bfriesen@simple.dallas.tx.us (Bob Friesenhahn) and 
Gustav "Gurre" Kalvesten <a94guska@ida.his.se> 

Would it be possible to enhance Xpaint so that it installs its own
colormap if there are not adequate colors available in the main
colormap?
----------------
Suggested by Morgan Fletcher <morgan@hahaha.org>

I would like to be able to apply the "None" color to
pixmaps. I've got libXpm.so.3.4 on my system, and I really like transparent
pixmaps. 
I've tried loading images w/ a "None" color, then doing a "Lookup" on the
transparent bits, hoping I'd get transparency added to my palette. Alas!

[My thought on this problem: make a mask upon loading the pixmap, based on
the transparent pixels. Then use this mask when the pixmap is saved. You will
have to add a new member to the Image struct.]
[Greg Roelofs' comment on this: the Image struct already contains a maskdata
field.  However, it's really designed for full alpha masks, not simple binary
transparency, and as far as I can tell, it's not editable anyway.  (Ideally
the alpha mask should show up as a second window with just grayscale editing
capabilities; it could be saved on its own, but when the asso- ciated "real"
image is saved/exited, the alpha window is saved/exited at the same time.  Not
a trivial change, however...)
Simple transparency would be far easier to edit if it were indeed a 
special "color" in the normal edit window.]
