Newsgroups: comp.sources.misc
From: cristy@eplrx7.es.duPont.com (John Cristy)
Subject:  v34i028:  imagemagick - X11 image processing and display v2.2, Part00/26
Message-ID: <csm-v34i028=imagemagick.141926@sparky.IMD.Sterling.COM>
X-Md4-Signature: 36db2be14afbf9432f38d29c3017adbc
Date: Sun, 13 Dec 1992 20:20:49 GMT
Approved: kent@sparky.imd.sterling.com

Submitted-by: cristy@eplrx7.es.duPont.com (John Cristy)
Posting-number: Volume 34, Issue 28
Archive-name: imagemagick/part00
Environment: UNIX, VMS, X11, SGI, DEC, Cray, Sun, Vax

ImageMagick 2.2 is a collection of X11 image processing and display
utilities.  ImageMagick requires a C compiler (ANSI or K&R), X11
libraries (X11R3, X11R4, X11R5), and virtual memory.  It has been
compiled under most versions of UNIX and VMS.  It is available in
comp.sources.misc and as contrib/ImageMagick.tar.Z on
export.lcs.mit.edu.  Version 2.1 was previously posted to alt.sources.
This version has (hopefully) all the bugs fixed from version 2.1 and
has these enhancements:

  o Uses new JPEG Version 4 library.

  o When displaying a composite MIFF image created with `montage',
    button 3 no longer displays a magnify window.  Instead the
    tile at the mouse location is displayed.  When the tile image is
    exited, the composite image reappears.  This is effectively a
    visual image directory.

  o For colormapped X servers, the color reduction has been sped up by
    trading image quality for processing time.  See the README for
    details.

  o Panning uses a pixmap for faster panning speed.

  o Multi-part GIF's can now be displayed or animated.

  o All utilities correctly read multi-part TIFF images.

  o Images are sorted by intensity for shared colormapped visuals.
    Some intensity intervals are made "more popular".  This gives better
    image results when sharing colors with other applications.

  o `montage' has a new gravity option for placing an image within
    a tile of the composite, i.e. CenterGravity.

  o `montage' has a new compose option for specifying which composite
     operation to use.

  o `montage' creates composite images with the `montage' keyword.

  o Updated MIFF manual page to reflect 'montage' image header
    keyword.

  o Add -colormap to `mogrify.'  Use to color reduce an image to
    a set of colors you choose.

  o Some compilers have read-only strings.   ImageMagick no longer
    writes on read-only strings.

  o Latin1Upper was declared wrong in X.h.

  o Added unistd.h to display.h for strict ANSI compilers.

  o Changed long to time_t for calls to C time routine.

  o Fixed segmentation fault when reading multi-part images with
    animate, montage, or mogrify.

  o Multi-part MIFF images have the correct file name now.

  o adjusted the sensitivity for automatic dithering.  Some JPEG images
    were not being dithered.

  o An expose event for the Magnify window may occur before it is
    mapped.  This caused display to fail on Solburne and HP's.

  o Using `-colorspace gray' with 'convert' correctly produces
    grayscale images.

  o Image pixmap was not being updated correctly when pan icon appears
    (thanks to dws@ssec.wisc.edu).

  o Fixed ANSI warning on image composite code.

  o Rotate.c now uses a table to force range limits.

  o range table in quantize.c is allocated from the heap instead of
    the stack.

cristy@dupont.com

---

Display

     Display is a machine architecture independent image
     processing and display program.  It can display an image on
     any workstation display running an X server.  Display first
     determines the hardware capabilities of the workstation.  If
     the number of unique colors in the image is less than or
     equal to the number the workstation can support, the image
     is displayed in an X window.  Otherwise the number of colors
     in the image is first reduced to match the color resolution
     of the workstation before it is displayed.

     This means that a continuous-tone 24 bits/pixel image can
     display on a 8 bit pseudo-color device or monochrome device.
     In most instances the reduced color image closely resembles
     the original.  Alternatively, a monochrome or pseudo-color
     image can display on a continuous-tone 24 bits/pixels
     device.


Import

     Import reads an image from any visible window on an X server
     and outputs it as an image file.  You can capture a single
     window, the entire screen, or any rectangular portion of the
     screen.  You can use display (see display(1)) utility for
     redisplay, printing, editing, formatting, archiving, image
     processing, etc. of the captured image.

     The target window can be specified by id, name, or may be
     selected by clicking the mouse in the desired window.  If
     you press a button and then drag, a rectangle will form
     which expands and contracts as the mouse moves.  To save the
     portion of the screen  defined by the rectangle, just
     release the button.  The keyboard bell is rung once at the
     beginning of the screen capture and twice when it completes.


XtoPS

     XtoPS reads an image from any visible window on an X server
     and outputs it as Encapsulated Postscript.  You can capture
     a single window, the entire screen, or any rectangular
     portion of the screen.  You can view the captured screen
     with any Postscript compatible viewer or printer.  The
     Postscript is displayed in color on viewers or printers that
     support color, otherwise it is displayed as grayscale.

     The target window can be specified by id, name, or may be
     selected by clicking the mouse in the desired window.  If
     you press a button and then drag, a rectangle will form
     which expands and contracts as the mouse moves.  To save the
     portion of the screen defined by the rectangle, just release
     the button.  The keyboard bell is rung once at the beginning
     of the screen capture and twice it completes.


Animate

     Animate displays a sequence of images on any workstation
     display running an X server.  Animate first determines the
     hardware capabilities of the workstation.  If the number of
     unique colors in an image is less than or equal to the
     number the workstation can support, the image is displayed
     in an X window.  Otherwise the number of colors in the image
     is first reduced to match the color resolution of the
     workstation before it is displayed.

     This means that a continuous-tone 24 bits/pixel image can
     display on a 8 bit pseudo-color device or monochrome device.
     In most instances the reduced color image closely resembles
     the original.  Alternatively, a monochrome or pseudo-color
     image sequence can display on a continuous-tone 24
     bits/pixels device.


Montage

     Montage creates a composite image by combining several
     separate images.  The images are tiled on the composite
     image with the name of the image optionally appearing just
     below the individual tile.

Mogrify

     Mogrify transforms an image or a sequence of images.  These
     transforms include image scaling, image rotation, color
     reduction, and others.  The transmogrified image overwrites
     the original image.


Convert

     Convert converts an input file using one image format to an
     output file with a differing image format. By default, the
     image format is determined by it's magic number. To specify
     a particular image format, precede the filename with an
     image format name and a colon (i.e.  mtv:image) or specify
     the image type as the filename suffix (i.e. image.mtv).
     Specify file as - for standard input or output.  If file has
     the extension .Z, the file is decoded with uncompress.

     Convert recognizes the following image formats:

       Tag       Description
       ----------------------------------------------------
       AVS
       CMYK      Raw cyan, magenta, yellow, and black bytes
       FAX       Group 3
       GIF
       GRAY      Raw gray bytes
       JPEG
       MIFF      Machine Independant file format
       MTV
       PNM       Portable bitmap
       PS        Postscript
       RGB       Raw red, green, and blue bytes
       RLE       Utah Raster Toolkit
       SUN       SUN raster
       TEXT      raw text file; read only
       TIFF      Tagged Image File Format
       VICAR
       X         select image from X server screen; read only
       XC        constant image of X server background color
       XBM       X11 bitmap
       XWD       X11 window dump

XTP

     Xtp is a utility for retrieving, listing, or printing files
     from a remote network site, or sending files to a remote
     network site.  Xtp performs most of the same functions as
     the ftp program, but does not require any interactive
     commands.  You simply specify the file transfer task on the
     command line and xtp performs the task automatically.
-- 
cristy@dupont.com

exit 0 # Just in case...
