@(#)WEB	6.6 98/10/15

WORLD WIDE WEB SITES 
--------------------

If your xmcd installation is configured properly to remote-control
a web browser, you can access all of the below web sites directly via
the wwwWarp feature of xmcd.  Just click the "Web..." button on the
CDDB/Program subwindow.

The xmcd/cda web site is at:

    http://sunsite.unc.edu/tkan/xmcd/

This site provides up-to-date information about the current release
version, features list, Frequently Asked Questions (and answers),
and late breaking announcement, if any.

The source code bundle and pre-compiled binary releases of xmcd/cda
for certain OS environments are also available from this site.

The CDDB(tm) web page is at:

    http://www.cddb.com/

This site provides details about how to use the CD Database, a public
CD database server sites list, FAQ, server access statistics,
download other CDDB-compatible software, etc.  Also available is the
Online CD Database Search engine.  This allows you to perform keyword
searches on the entire database.

You are invited to visit these sites and make use of their services.
Please be sure to read the FAQ section on the CDDB site before sending
submissions to the master database.

The xmcd wwwWarp feature also lets you perform searches on Internet
search engine sites, so you can browse discographies, music reviews,
lyrics, fan club and concert information, art and graphics, and many
other sites related to the CD or track that you're listening to.  This
enhances your CD playing experience and is as simple as a few mouse
clicks.

Xmcd comes pre-configured with a list of wwwWarp Internet search sites
for your convenience.  However, this does not imply any affiliation of
xmcd and its author with these sites, nor does it imply any endorsement
or guarantee of their contents or services.

A search sites may change its CGI interface in the future.  If that
occurs, the format of the search request that xmcd sends may no longer
work on that particular site.  The search URLs are configured via the
XMCDLIBDIR/config/common.cfg file (and you can override or add entries
in your $HOME/.xmcdcfg/common.cfg file).  The master common.cfg file
contains comments that describe the configuration syntax in detail.
You can change the settings to match.  To determine the new CGI interface,
you can use a web browser, proceed to the main page of the search site,
perform a manual search, then check the URL of the results page.

The xmcd web site has a section "wwwWarp Updates" (under the "Downloads"
page) which lists new entries that you may add to your common.cfg file.
This is updated when the author finds new and interesting sites that
may fit well with xmcd's wwwWarp function.  You are welcome to submit
entries of this nature to the author for inclusion on this page.  Send
e-mail to xmcd@amb.org.

