Possible improvements
---------------------
2. add more gnuchess switches
3. human-human playing
4. xor piece while user moves it (?probably not)
5. gray background for dark squares in 1-bit mode
10. add time odds to record-file
12a. analog clocks (?probably not)
12b. scoresheet text widget.  Could replace Comment pop-ups in 
	Load Game mode as well as working in other modes.  Current
	move should be highlighted.
12c. jail (?probably not)
16. allow move typein from keyboard.  Maybe by typing into scoresheet, maybe 
	a separate pop-up dialog.  Allow multiple moves when in force
	mode, to support X cut and paste from mail and news.
17. move some buttons to menu(s), add menu bar for future features
20. some way to back up, explore variations, then return to the main line
	and restore moves we backed out.  should also support exploring
	side branches while loading a game file.  Push/pop buttons?
	Button to fork another xboard in same state as current one?
21. Maybe make LoadPosition parser smarter: able to skip arbitrary garbage
	before the position, able to tell when file doesn't contain
	a position, able to read positions in other common styles.
	(Tricky if some use the opposite case convention.)  Forsythe notation?
23. Maybe allow LoadGame from SetupPosition mode, or even ForceMoves mode.
26. After sending move to machine, wait for positive acknowledgement or
        error message before proceeding; don't allow other events first. 
        This will fix some race conditions and obscure bugs, and allow some new
        features---e.g., selecting Machine White when white is not on move.  
27. Maybe add some optional screen flash when gnuchess makes its move.
29. Check for other XChess features that XBoard doesn't have.
32. Support for game-in-n and Fischer clock.
35. Dialog to set time controls.
36. Dialogs to change most things that are fixed resources now.
42. xboard could generate ICS-style elapsed times on each move
	for games played against gnuchess.  This should probably be
	optional.  The same option could suppress the times on moves
	from ICS, maybe.  (See also 46.)
43. Strength numbers from ICS are bogus if you use Backward/Forward.
	They are nice to have, though.  Maybe xboard should generate
	correct ones itself.  This could be done in non-ICS mode too.
44. It would be nice to have ForceMoves available in ICS mode for
	post-mortems.
46. LoadGame doesn't display ICS-style elapsed times on moves.  To
	do this would require look-ahead or a parser change.  Either
	is doable but ugly.  A benefit of look-ahead is that one could use
	it to pop up comments along with the move they follow instead of
	on the next forward step.
49. It might be nicer to step slowly through movelists obtained from
	the ICS oldmoves command, as with LoadGame, instead of jumping to
	the end.
51. Look into not killing the chess programs unless really needed.  Should
	really never be needed except possibly when we need to stop one while
	it's thinking.  Even then Attention() should get it; we just have to
	deal with the bogus move it makes.
52. nnn suggests making the clock bigger and putting it below the buttons.
53. Popup dialog to let you enter comments.
54. Some way to enter nested lines (see also 20).
55. Add lex-only mode to move parser---doesn't try to disambiguate moves
	or check for legality.  Use to speed up scanning for nth game 
	in a file.  (?)
57. The lexer is slow on low-powered machines (e.g., VS2000).  This is
	annoying when parsing ICS "oldmoves" or "moves" command to 
	start observing a game.  Can it be speeded up?
58. The "white vs. black" heading and default "white-black.game" save 
	file name in ICS mode are nice; do something similar for games
	against gnuchess.  
59. Make sure comment popup is wide enough considering font in
	use.  (Assume 80 characters?)

