		 README for XKAL - X Appointment Calendar

		George Ferguson, ferguson@cs.rochester.edu

			     27 Feb 1990

DISCLAIMER:

     This is no longer a BETA release, but there have been drastic
     changes since the original (1.0beta). No doubt the increased complexity
     of the program has introduced many new bugs. While it has been in
     use for some time at our site, there are certainly many bugs left to
     find.

     This software is provided as is with no warranty expressed or implied.
     I hope you find it useful, but I won't be held responsible for
     any damage that may occur from reading, compiling, installing or
     using it.

     You are free to use any part of this code for other purposes. It
     would be nice if you could keep my name on some part of whatever the
     final product is.


INSTALLATION:

     1. Edit the Imakefile to reflect any changes for your site. These
	include setting BINDIR, LIBDIR, and MANDIR if needed, and
	checking CDEBUGFLAGS if debugging or optimization is desired.

	This program uses the EzMenu widgets, which provides a resource
	manager interface to the SimpleMenuWidget. You should check the
	definitions in the Imakefile to reflect your installation of
	the EzMenu package. In particular, you may not need the TARGET_MACH
	flag if you only intend to compile for one architecture. Note that
	the version of the EzMenu widgets used with this version (1.10 and
	up) of xkal is slightly changed from that originally in xtex (and in
	xkal 1.0beta). It allows only commas to separate arguments to action
	procedures, rather than whitespace as well, since otherwise it was
	too hard to pass things.

	Compiling this program requires the "ad2c" program. You should
	set the AD2C variable as required. Actually, ad2c is only required
	if you change Xkal.ad and want the new defaults compiled in as
	fallback resources. If you don't have ad2c, you probably want
	to remove the line that adds Xkal.ad.h to the "clean" target.

	Decide if you want to use the popup alert boxes. More importantly,
	decide if you can compile them. If not (ie. if the subsequent make
	barfs), then comment out the ALERT* definitions and error messages
	will go to stderr.

	If you don't have dysize(3) you should uncomment the relevant
	definitions (DYSIZE*) to include it. This includes Ultrix and
	maybe SGI systems.

	If you don't have strcasecmp(3) you should uncomment the relevant
	definitions (STRCASECMP*) to include it. This includes at least
	Sun386i systems.

	If you have troubles compiling "string-convert.c" due to missing
	or multiple declarations of "XtCXtToolkitError" and the like, just
	remove "string-convert.o" from the definitions of OBJS[123] in the
	Imakefile. This will mean that you will see the message
		Cannot convert string "NULL" to type Widget
	on startup, but otherwise doesn't affect xkal's operation.

     2. You may want to change defaults in Xkal.ad; consult the man page for
	details, and see above about ad2c.

     2. Execute
		% xmkmf
	to create the Makefile.

     3. Execute
		% make depend
	to add the dependencies to the Makefile. This is necessary to
	ensure that Xkal.ad.h is created when needed.
	IMPORTANT: Ignore the error message from makedepend if Xkal.ad.h
		   is not found; it will be created automatically.

     4. Make the package using
		% make
	or install it directly with
		% make install install.man

HISTORY:
     Unless otherwise indicated, things are listed with the person who
     suggested them. These people did not write code; I get the blame for
     that). Apologies if I didn't credit someone.

     Released to alt.sources (version 1.0 beta), 13 Nov 1990.

     Patched 16 Nov 1990:
	Bad values in XtSetValues(), lines 169, 172, 175 "day.c"
		- douglis@cs.vu.nl (Fred Douglis)
		- sengillo@isdc00.kodak.com (Alan Sengillo)

     Version 1.10 made available for ftp, 27 Feb 1991. The following are
	some of the changes in this version, listed with the person who
	suggested them (these people did not write code; I get the blame for
	that). Apologies if I didn't credit someone.
	From: netmgr@venus.csc.fi (Pekka Kyt|laakso)
		Customize dow and month labels and allow Monday at start of
		week for European users.
	From: Colin Walls <ctw@sun.central-services.umist.ac.uk>
		Allow calendar format and preprocessor. Actually it will
		handle almost any date spec., and provides #include.
	From: several people
		Ultrix defs for dysize() and don't use += if possible.
	From: rackow@antares.mcs.anl.gov (Gene Rackow)
		Different reminder types, like monthly and yearly. In fact,
		the appointment format is considerably more flexible, with
		respect to both syntax and semantics.
	From: weissman%pianoforte.esd.sgi.com@SGI.COM
		Fixed major grossness in selectDay()
	From: mucit@cs.rochester.edu (Bulent Murtezaoglu)
		Two month format and better labelling algorithm for moved
		appoints.
	And from me:
		- System and personal files, with #include functionality
		- Added appointment editor to replace schedule editor
		- Added defaults editor
		- Fully customizable day layout, including start and end times,
		  increment, number and label of notes
		- Switch to "criticality levels" for appointment highlighting
		- Popup error messages where appropriate (if wanted)
		- "xkal-system()" action for arbitrary commands
		- Automail scripts
		- Programs to write in xremind and pcal formats
     Version 1.11 - 1 Mar 1991
	gf: Get notesLabel in non-interactive mode
     Version 1.12 - 2 Mar 1991
	gf: Mail tomorrow's reminders in xkal-mail and xkal-automail, rather
	    than today's. Duuh...
     Version 1.13 - 13 Mar 1991
	From: rme@olympia.net.com (Richard Emberson)
		- Added notes to README concerning EzMenu changes
	From: jdm5548@diamond.tamu.edu (James Darrell McCauley)
		- Added notes to README concerning handling string-convert.c
		  problems.
		- Fixed bogus ad hoc handling of am/pm, and added noonStr
		  and midnightStr resources
