			      XPAINT 2.0 Release


Welcome to the release of XPaint 2.0!  So, what does XPaint do for
you?  Why many wonderful things of course.  XPaint is a reasonably
versatile bitmap/pixmap editing tool.  XPaint came out of a problem
editing some very large bitmaps, and wanting more functionality then
was provided by bitmap. After XPaint 1.0 sat around for a LONG time, I
finally ended up with a strong need to edit color pixmaps.  Presto,
this is what has appeared from that problem.

The short features list:
	Usual paint operations:
		Brushes, Spray paint, Pencil
		Lines, Arcs, Pattern Fill, Text,
		Boxes, Circles, Polygons.
	Works on multiple images simultaneously.
	Cut/Copy/Paste between all active images.
	Fatbits/Zoom on the image windows.

XPaint is slightly biased towards a MacPaint-like operation set, since
this is the only paint program that I have ever used for more than 30
seconds, but not to let this discourage you, it does quite a bit more.
If you find some functionality missing and feel like adding it, there
is a rough description of how the operations interface works, and I'd
be more that willing to help you.

At the present time, XPaint only supports the reading/writing of either
X11 Bitmaps, XWD (X window dump) format, or the PNM format that is used
in the PBMPLUS toolkit (which is available for ftp from
export.lcs.mit.edu, and provides many converters to and from most
widely available formats).  Also for those of you using 'xv' to preview
images, you will find that it can read/write the PNM formats as well
and can be used as a simple format converter.

XPaint is written using ANSI C (for the most part), and thus you need
to have a compiler that understands function prototypes.  On most MIPS
based machines this is the standard compiler, on a Sun SparcStation you
will either need to use gcc or 'acc' (from sun).  If you have some
other brand of workstation, try using 'gcc' if your compiler doesn't
work.

Hope you find this useful, 
David Koblas 
koblas@netcom.com
