                             kit 2.0

           Copyright (c) 1990 1991 1992, Raphael Manfredi

You may copy this kit in whole or in part as long as you don't try to
make money off it, or pretend you wrote it.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      The ultimate mailing kit

Please read all the directions below before you proceed any further, and
then follow them carefully.

After you have unpacked your kit, you should have all the files listed
in MANIFEST.

Kit used to rely on Rich Salz's cshar package but is now self-contained.
However, if you have the opportunity to get cshar, I would recommend its
installation. Kit will automatically use the tools from cshar when they
are available.

In order to use kit, you must have an implementation of compress. If you
miss it, send me a mail: ram@eiffel.com (Raphael Manfredi).

Moreover, hexdecode, hexencode, atob and btoa must be installed. The
public-domain implementation of des, which is provided with kit, must
also be in your PATH if you want to use the encryption facilities.


INSTALLATION

1) Run Configure. This will figure out various things about your
system. After it has been completed, it will produce config.h and
config.sh.

You might have to trim # comments from the front of Configure if your
shell doesn't handle them, but any other comments will be taken care of.

2) Run make.

3) If make succeeded, you may wish to do make install. Be sure your
rights are correct (if you install manual pages, you may need
super-user privileges).

4) Read the manual entries before running.

5) IMPORTANT! Communicate any problem and suggested patches to
me, ram@eiffel.com (Raphael Manfredi), so we can keep this
distribution in sync. If you have a problem, there will be someone
who might have had it or will have it too.

If possible, send me patches such that the patch program will
apply them. Context diffs are the best, then normal diffs. Do not
send ed scripts: I have probably changed my copy since the version
you got.

6) After everything is installed, you can do "make clobber". This will
clean up everything and let you re-distribute this kit, without
carrying useless files. You should keep this distribution intact, so
that future patches will be applicable.

7) I have an automatic patch sender. Send me a mail of the following
form:

	Subject: Command
	@SH mailhelp PATH

and you will get instructions about how to use it. PATH stands for
YOUR e-mail address, either in INTERNET form or in bang notation.


CREDITS

Kit relies on four public-domain softwares:

	- cshar, written by Rich Salz (kit will use it if possible).
	- des, written by Phil Karn, which is provided with kit.
	- btoa (as a stripped down implementation).
	- badtar, written by Mike Williams, with a few enhancements.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

I would like to thank:

	Gary Casterline <casterln@are.berkeley.edu>
	Robert M. Cothren <rim@marvin.ri.ccf.org>
	Michael Fischer <fischer-michael@cs.yale.edu>
	Gurvan Lullien <lullien@inf.enst.fr>
	Monty Solomon <roscom!monty@think.com>

for their bug reports and comments.

The criticism of Tim Kuehn <timk@wynnds.xenitec.on.ca> was also much
appreciated.

I am especially grateful to Jaap Vermeulen <jaap@sequent.com> and to
David Wright <dmw@prism1.com> for their critical bug reports and
suggestions.

	Raphael Manfredi <ram@eiffel.com>
