This is version 2.1 of Xtartan, a program to draw Scottish tartans.
See the file "ANNOUNCE" for instructions on building.

Version 2 allows you to specify tartan information using X resources
(rather than having to compile them in as in the previous version),
so you can quite easily add your own definitions if you wish (see the
man page for details on how to do this.)  However, you probably will not
need to do this unless you are creating a new tartan, since Xtartan now
comes with the definitions for over 240 tartans included.

If you have another tartan that is not in this list that you would like
me to add, or if you have a variation or think that one of these tartans
is wrong, you must send me the thread count and the source of your
information.  Please tell me about the copyright on that source as well.

Xtartan requires its resource file to run.  If you have trouble getting it
to use the file directly, you can try "xrdb -merge XTartan.ad" before
running xtartan.

Jim McBeath		February 11, 1991
Globetrotter Software, Saratoga, California
jimmc@hisoft.uucp (Highland Software) or jimmc@netcom.com

---
Version 2.1 was created by Joseph Shelby in 1994/1995.
Several new capabilities were added.

XTartan now allows for window managers other than mwm to allow input.  Mwm
has a bug that considers shell-widget only program to accept input.  Other
window managers like 4Dwm and fvwm ignore that window unless the "Input"
hint is added.  This version works for those two window managers and
probably twm as well.

The ability to create an Xpm3.4 file of a tartan was added.
This can be useful for creating files of tartans to use in other programs or
in odd environments such as SGI Irix 5.2 (where you can't set the root
window except by xbm/xpm files).  Hit the key "x" in the tartan window to
create an xpm file of the current tartan in the current directory.  The file
will contain the exact version from the screen, including scale, linewidth,
and "dark" factors (see below).  The filename will be the name of the
tartan.

Xpm must be configured before compiling.  Edit the Imakefile and change the
directories of the Xpm headers and libraries before typing "xmkmf", or
comment the lines out if the xpm library is not available.  Xpm can be found
in ftp.x.org.  The latest version is 3.4c, found in /contrib/libraries.

A new color mode, "dark" was added.  This allows tartans to be shown in
either their brighter "ancient" colors, or in their darker "modern" colors. 
To toggle dark mode, hit "d" in the tartan's window.  To make it the
default, use the "-dark" or "-modern" command line options or change the
XTartan.ad resource file.  Xpm filenames of "dark" colors will have "_dark"
added to the end of the tartan name.  Not all tartans look good in the dark
colors, especially ones with pink in them.  I optimized the dark algorithm
(if you can call it that) for heavy blue-green patterns like MacLeod.  The
code is in "color.c". 

Joseph Shelby			January 7, 1995
Autometric, Inc., Alexandria, VA (USA)
jshelby@autometric.com
