This library contains many miscellanous functions that are used by the
other programs we have written.

The declarations for the functions are in ../include.  config.h must be
included first in a .c file; that includes global.h, which declares a
few of the most commonly used functions here.  The rest have their own
include files, e.g., line.h.

Some functions merely call a C library routine or make a system call,
check the return status, and abort if the function failed.  (In the
programs this has been used for, that was all that we ever wanted.)

Here is a brief description of what's here (aside from the files which
have just one function in them and other ``obvious'' ones):

bb-outline	find the outlines in a bitmap character.

bitmap		operations on bitmaps, with each pixel represented by a
		byte in memory.

bounding-box	conversions to and from bounding boxes, both integer
		and real.

cmdline		standard things for reading option lists.

dirio		directory operations.

encoding	read a font encoding specification in a .enc file.

file-input	read BigEndian values.

file-open	wrappers for fopen and fclose.

file-output	write BigEndian values.

filename	operations on filenames.

fix-num		conversions for the `fix_word' fixed-point fraction
		type, used in TFM files et al.

font		read a bitmap font, or a bitmap font and its metrics.

hexify		convert a sequence of binary data to its hex representation.

libfile		read a `library', i.e., an auxiliary data, file.

line		read an arbitrarily long line from a file, returning a string.

list            generic list operations.  It is a tossup as to whether
                it is easier to repeat this code for the particular
                lists you desire, or to use these, often with an extra
                level of pointers.  Unfortunately, C does not support
                generic types.

math		distance, slope, etc., between two points; operations on
		arrays as a collection of numeric data.

now		the current time as in date(1).

pathsearch	look up a filename along a path in an environment variable.

report		online progress reporting.

scaled-num	routines for the `scaled' fixed-point fraction
		type, used in GF files et al.

spline		operations on Bezier splines.

statistics	find the mean/standard deviation of an array of numbers.

varstring	variable-length strings.

vector		operations on vectors and point/vector combinations.
