Path: uunet!zephyr.ens.tek.com!master!saab!billr
From: billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM (Bill Randle)
Newsgroups: comp.sources.games
Subject: v14INF1:   intro14 - Introduction to comp.sources.games
Message-ID: <3270@master.CNA.TEK.COM>
Date: 31 Jul 92 23:32:19 GMT
Sender: news@master.CNA.TEK.COM
Lines: 270
Approved: billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM

Submitted-by: Bill Randle <billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM>
Posting-number: Volume 14, Info 1
Archive-name: intro14
Environment: 


This is the first of several introductory messages about comp.sources.games:
   *1. How to submit sources to comp.sources.games.
    2. List of sources posted to this newsgroup arranged numerically
	by volume/issue number.  It provides a listing of the
	Volume/Issue, the Archive-name and the Subject for each
	posting. [Part 1/2: vols 1-7]
    3. List of sources posted to this newsgroup arranged numerically
	by volume/issue number.  It provides a listing of the
	Volume/Issue, the Archive-name and the Subject for each
	posting. [Part 2/2: vols 8-13]
    4. List of sources posted to this newsgroup arranged
	alphabetically by name.  It provides a listing of the the
	Archive-name, Volume/Issue, and the Subject for each posting.
	[Part 1/3: a-l]
    5. List of sources posted to this newsgroup arranged
	alphabetically by name.  It provides a listing of the the
	Archive-name, Volume/Issue, and the Subject for each posting.
	[Part 2/3: m-o]
    6. List of sources posted to this newsgroup arranged
	alphabetically by name.  It provides a listing of the the
	Archive-name, Volume/Issue, and the Subject for each posting.
	[Part 3/3: p-z]
    7. List of the patches that have been posted in c.s.g.
    8. Index of sources in the games archive on saab.  (This
	includes some games that have not been posted to the c.s.g.
	newsgroup (e.g. X-windows games). [Part 1/2: a-s]
    9. Index of sources in the games archive on saab.  (This
	includes some games that have not been posted to the c.s.g.
	newsgroup (e.g. X-windows games). [Part 2/2: t-z]
   10. The list of archive sites and how to contact them.

There are *many* things covered in this posting -- each new topic is
preceded by a Subject: line.  If you get bored reading a particular
section, fast forward to the next Subject: line and read that one.
Please don't submit sources without having read -everything- in this
file (you'll be tested and graded later :-).

I am always looking for suggestions on how to improve the usefulness
of the newsgroup.  Please do not hesitate to send suggestions to
billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM.

--------------------
Subject:  The structure of comp.sources.games articles

Each posting in comp.sources.games is called an "issue"; there are roughly 100
issues to a volume.  The division is arbitrary, and has varied in
the past.  There are two types of articles in comp.sources.games; sources
and "information postings."  They can be distinguished by the subject
line:
	Subject:  v03INF1:  Introduction to comp.sources.games

This first word in the title identifies this as the first info posting of
volume three.  Similarly, the subject line shown below:

    Subject:  v01i060:  war - intergalactic simulation, Part01/40

identifies this as the 60th source article in Volume 1.  All sources are
broken up into pieces.  This is done so that there could be a proper storage
directory when patches are issued. This is part 1 of a 40 part posting. 

The first few lines of an article are auxiliary headers that look like this:

    Submitted-by: root@freeware.ATT.COM
    Posting-number: Volume 7, Issue 82
    Archive-name: monopoly/Part01
    Environment: Unix

The "Submitted-by" is the author of the program.  IF YOU HAVE COMMENTS ABOUT
THE SOURCES PUBLISHED IN COMP.SOURCES.GAMES, THIS IS THE PERSON TO CONTACT.
When possible, this address is in domain form, otherwise it is a UUCP bang
path relative to some major site such as "uunet."

The second line repeats the volume/issue information for the aide of NOTES
sites and automatic archiving programs.

The Archive-name is the "official" name of this source in the archive.  Large
postings will have names that look like this:

    Archive-name: zork/Part01

Please try to use this name when requesting that sources be mailed to you.
Also, note that the "part number" given in the title, and the archive name
given in the auxiliary header need not be identical.

The Environment is a few key words describing the operating environment
required by the program. Typical keywords are: Unix, MS-DOS, VMS, X11,
SunView, Curses, etc.

-----------------
Subject: Patches Handling

Patches will be handled as swiftly as possible. Authors of sources posted
to c.s.g should send all patches to me so that I can post them back through
the newsgroup in order that the patches can be archived. This has not been
done in the past in other sources groups and has lead to lost patches. If
the patches must get out *real* fast, post them to comp.sources.games.bugs
and send me a copy at the same time so that they will be available when
they are needed in the future.

To support the tracking of patches, the Patch-To: line is used in c.s.g.
The Patch-To: line exists for articles that are patches to previously posted 
software. The Patch-To: line only appears in articles that are posted, 
"Official", patches. The initial postings would not contain the Patch-To: 
auxiliary header line.

Patch-To: syntax
	Patch-To: package-name: Volume X, Issue x[-y,z]

Patch-To: examples. These are examples and do not reflect the
accurate volume/issue numbering for rkive.

In the first example, the article that contains the following line
is a patch to a single part posting.
	Patch-To: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122

This example shows that the 122-124 indicates the patch applies to
a multi-part posting. The '-' is used to mean "article A through article
B, inclusive..
	Patch-To: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122-124

If a patch applies to multiple part postings that are not consecutive, the
',' is used to separate the part issue numbers. It is possible to mix both
',' and '-' on a single Patch-To: line.
	Patch-To: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122,125,126,127
	Patch-To: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122,125-127

If a new release is posted instead of a large set of patches, then the
posting will ontain a Supercedes: header line with a format similar to
the Patch-To: header.

Supercedes: syntax
	Supercedes: package-name: Volume X, Issue x[-y,z]

Supercedes: examples
	Supercedes: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122-124
	Supercedes: rkive: Volume 22, Issue 122-125,127

--------------------
Subject: Reporting and tracking bugs.

You should subscribe to comp.sources.games.bugs.

Sometimes, when new versions of previously-published software is available,
just patches are put out, usually in the form of shar files containing
input for the "patch" program, new files, etc.  Sometimes complete new
versions are put out.  Which method is used depends on the poster and
the moderator.  Minor updates must be in patch form and update the 
patchlevel.h file.  Major updates should be the guidelines for postings.

To report bugs, contact the person listed in the Submitted-by header.
Often there is a contact address in a README file, too.  I do not maintain
the sources I moderate, so don't send your bug reports to me.
Likewise, I normally do not post patches for a package from anyone
except the author. If you have patches you would like to see included
in the package, send them to the person listed in the Submitted-by
header. If the original author is incommunicado I will consider posting
patches submitted by other people.

--------------------
Subject: Submitting source for publication

Items intended for posting or queries and problem notes should be sent to
games@saab.CNA.TEK.COM

If you want verification of arrival, say so in a cover note, or at the
beginning of your submission, if it is small.  I try to verify that a
program works, and if I can't get it to work, I may hold up posting it
for a couple of days.  Please note that, except in rare cases, source
that doesn't meet the guidelines will not be published.  The backlog
from receipt to posting varies from one to three weeks depending mostly
on the set of submissions currently in my queue and my current work load.

-------------------
Subject: Guidelines

To make life easier for both myself and the users of the comp.sources.games
newsgroup, I request that all submissions follow the following guidelines.

Initial Submissions:
    1.  Source filenames need to be 12 or fewer characters in length.
    2.  Source files need to be less than 50K bytes in size.
    3.  A Makefile is highly desirable. 
    4.  A manual page is desirable.
    5.  A README file is required. This should contain a brief
        description of what the posting is and any special
        considerations in building it. The README should
        also contain a list of authors and the distribution
        and copying policy. 

Updates, patches, etc.:
    It is up to the author to determine if there have been major enough
    changes to warrant a complete reposting. This may be necessary if the
    size of the patches exceeds the size of the source, but in most cases
    only patches are posted. Total repostings should be treated as an 
    initial posting. What follows pertains to patches...

    1.  When patches are submitted, they should be in context diff 
        format.
    2.  A patch to patchlevel.h should be done to reflect that the
        patch has been applied.
    3.  Include information about which previously posted issues 
        the patch pertains to if they were initially posted to c.s.g.

    The patch program is currently at version 2.0 patchlevel 12, and may
    be obtained via anonymous ftp from jpl-devvax.jpl.nasa.gov.  The
    original 2.0 distribution and the first 11 patches are in the
    comp.sources.unix archives on uunet.  The exact patchlevel is
    probably not important for applying most patches, but you should
    have some variety of 2.0, as it supports features like creating new
    files and adding/subtracting lines with only one copy of the context,
    as are created by recent varieties of diff.

    Patches can be made with diff -c on many machines and
    with diffc on others. Diffc can be found in volume 1 of comp.sources.unix
    archives. GNU diff can also be used to create context diffs.

------------------------
Subject: Becoming an archive site

If you collect comp.sources.games postings and are willing and able to make
your collection available to other people, please let me know.  Benefits
include the undying gratitude of your colleagues, and a promise from me to
try to make sure you never lose an article.  

--------------------
Subject: Accessing the archives

The complete archives are fairly large; an average volume is three to
four megabytes.

There are several active archive sites around the net, but more are always
welcome - especially outside the US.

Some sites below will send tapes through the mail.  For those sites, send
a 1/2" mag tape WITH RETURN POSTAGE and RETURN MAILER.  Tapes without
postage or mailer will not be returned.  No other methods (COD, etc.) are
available; please don't ask. Other sites may make 1/4" mag tapes, 8mm
mag tapes or floppy disks. It doesn't hurt to ask.

--------------------
Subject: Editorial comments

I generally accept any game (or entertaining diversion) software without
regard to host architecture or operating system. There are some exceptions,
as there are specific newsgroups for many architectures. Thus if your
game is IBM PC specific or Mac or Atari only, it is generally better
to post it in the comp.sources.<favorite architecture> newsgroup (if
it exists). The other exception is games that are specific to the
X-Windows windowing system. They should be generally posted to the
comp.sources.x newsgroup. If the moderator will not accept it for
posting there, send it to me. Games that utilize more than one display
system, e.g. X11 and SunView should be sent to me. Although there is
a comp.sources.sun newsgroup, SunView based games have historically
been posted in the comp.sources.games newsgroup.


    "Top 6 pet peeves of the comp.sources.games moderator."

1.   Programs that don't compile right the first time.
2.   Programs that don't execute right the first time.
3.   Patches that don't apply correctly.
4.   Individual source files larger than ~50K bytes.
5.   Submissions that do not contain a README or Makefile file.
6.   Submissions that do not contain a man page.
